The Not Quite Golden AgeRoughly between 1945 and 1975, America struck a remarkable accommodation between capitalism and democracy. It combined a hugely productive economic system with a broadly responsive and widely admired political system. America in those years achieved its highest degree of income equality (since measurements have been available). It generated a larger proportion of good-paying jobs than before or since, and more economic security than ever for more of its people. Perhaps not coincidentally, in those years Americans also expressed high confidence in democracy and trust in government, both of which sharply declined in subsequent years. That singular success and that powerful promise extended the moral authority of the American system throughout the world. In contrast to Soviet communism, America became an exemplar of both political freedom and suburban middle-class affluence.The economy was based on mass production. Mass production was profitable because a large middle class had enough money to purchase what could be mass-produced. The middle class had the money because the profits from mass production were divided up between the giant corporations and their suppliers, retailers, and employees. The bargaining power of these latter groups was enhanced and enforced by government action. Almost a third of the workforce belonged to a labor union. Economic benefits were also spread across the nation-to farmers, veterans, smaller towns, and small businesses-through regulation (of railroads, telephones, utilities, and energy supplies) and subsidy (price supports, highways, federal loans). Thus did democracy offset the economic power of large-scale production and widely disperse its benefits.But it was not quite a golden age. Women and minorities still struggled for political equality and economic opportunity. Much of the nation's poverty was hidden away in rural hollows or black ghettos. Foreign policy, ostensibly shaped by the perceived threat of Soviet communism, all too frequently pandered to the needs of large American firms for cheap raw materials abroad, such as bananas, tin, and oil. Civil liberties were imperiled during Senator Joe McCarthy's anti-communist witch hunt. Much of American life was monotonous, conformist, and deadly dull. And yet for all its shortcomings, democratic capitalism seemed to be working remarkably well, and on the way to working even better.In order to understand what happened to the Not Quite Golden Age, we first need to understand how it came about.The evolution began as the nineteenth century ended, when large corporations posed a profound challenge to American democracy. They brought a new level of prosperity to the nation but also sweatshops, child labor, and unsafe working conditions, and they monopolized whole industries. The unprecedented economic power of these giant companies made them politically unaccountable. America groped for a way to respond.It started with outsized personalities whose footprints are still visible-J. P. Morgan, a banker's son who sold stocks for the railroads, engineered a huge rail combination, and became a wealthy financier (J. P. Morgan and Sons, which evolved into today's Morgan Stanley); Andrew Carnegie, who began as a telephone clerk, rose to the presidency of the Pennsylvania Railroad, and then made a fortune as a steel magnate (Carnegie Steel); John D. Rockefeller, who started as a bookkeeper in Cleveland, bought his first oil refinery in 1862, cornered the oil market in the 1890s with his Standard Oil Company (whose descendant is ExxonMobil), and then moved into coal, iron, shipping, copper, and banking (Chase Manhattan); and, subsequently, Henry Ford.With these men and others like them flowed a stream of new inventions-steam engines, railway locomotives, the telegraph, electric turbines, internal combustion engines, and iron and steel machinery with interchangeable parts-that allowed all sorts of things to be made and shipped in very large volume. Costs could be spread over so many units that each single one was cheap to produce. Procter & Gamble devised a new machine for mass-producing Ivory soap. Diamond Match used a machine that made and boxed matches by the billions. A cigarette-making machine invented in 1881 was so productive that just fifteen of them satisfied America's annual demand for cigarettes. Standard Oil, American Sugar Refining, International Harvester, and Carnegie Steel, among others, gained unprecedented efficiencies through giant furnaces, whirling centrifuges, converters, and rolling and finishing equipment.Productivity surged. While the typical American worker in the early 1800s had produced a tiny .3 percent more each year (seeding and harvesting crops, logging, fishing, or applying his craft with hand tools), by the last decades of the century his productivity was rising at six times that rate. Output also exploded. Iron production doubled in just a few years; steel production multiplied twenty-fold. Railroad and telegraph networks expanded in tandem. Fast, regular, and reliable transportation and communication brought raw materials from far corners of the country into factories and sent finished goods out to wholesalers and retailers all over the nation.An economic revolution on this scale inevitably had large social consequence. Supply outran demand, leading to a severe depression that jolted much of Europe and America in 1873. Another depression in the summer of 1893 impoverished thousands of farmers, closed banks, and left more than a quarter of America's unskilled urban workforce unemployed. A growing chorus of socialists in Europe and America proclaimed the imminent collapse of capitalism. A swelling cadre of western populists in deepening debt to eastern bankers demanded that currencies be converted from gold to silver. With silver far more abundant than gold, this would inflate currency values and thereby shrink the debts. Manufacturers on both sides of the Atlantic wanted higher tariffs to protect themselves from foreign imports. (Only Britain, whose advanced manufacturers were the primary beneficiaries of free trade, declined to raise its tariffs, resulting in what were seen there as German and American "economic invasions.")Hundreds of thousands of people moved from farms to factories. In 1870, fewer than 8 percent of America's adult population worked in a mill and only one in five lived in a place with 8,000 or more inhabitants; a half century later, almost a third were in factories and almost a half lived in cities. During this tumultuous span of time, New York City's population swelled fourfold; Chicago became ten times its former size. In the 1870s, 280,000 immigrants entered the United States each year. In the 1880s, 5.5 million came; in the 1890s, another 4 million. By the first decade of the twentieth century, the flow of immigrants, most of them destitute when they arrived, rose to a million a year. According to a 1908 government study, almost three-fifths of the wage earners in principal branches of American industry had been born abroad. Immigrants then constituted a higher percentage of the total American workforce than they would a hundred years hence.As America and every other manufacturing nation began scouring more backward regions of the globe for potential markets, the term "imperialism" entered common speech. Teddy Roosevelt asserted America's imperial destiny in Latin America. "Territorial expansion," explained an official of the United States State Department in 1900, "is but the by-product of the expansion of commerce." Britain and Germany equated their economic prowess with their nations' global spheres of influence. The British economist J. A. Hobson dourly predicted the logical end-point of such competition: Businessmen, he warned, opt for war when they have exhausted their home markets. Like John Maynard Keynes three decades later, Hobson urged instead that advanced nations increase their domestic markets by making more of their citizens rich enough to buy domestically produced goods. "If apportionment of incomes were such as to evoke no excessive saving, full constant employment for capital and labor would be furnished at home." But the world war Hobson feared would occur before enough citizens had the wherewithal to buy a substantial portion of what they produced.In the first decades of the twentieth century, productivity again surged. Sweatshops and mills were replaced by large manufacturing plants, inspired by Frederick Winslow Taylor's new theories of "scientific management," which broke down every factory job into highly specialized and repetitive steps. Henry Ford's assembly line became the model. Not only could workers positioned along the line produce more cars in a shorter time but production could be concentrated in a few giant factories and materials could be bought in bulk at great savings. In 1909, Ford produced 10,607 cars; in 1913, 168,000; the following year, 248,000. By the beginning of World War I, much of American industry had consolidated into giant firms whose names became almost synonymous with America-Ford Motor, U.S. Steel, American Telephone & Telegraph, United States Rubber, National Biscuit, American Can, the Aluminum Company of America, General Electric, General Motors, and Rockefeller's Standard Oil.The size of such enterprises became an almost impregnable barrier to entry. They dominated the American, and much of the world's, economy for most of the twentieth century. Of the Fortune 500 largest corporations in 1994, more than half were founded between 1880 and 1930. A far smaller portion was founded during the long stable period between 1945 and 1975, an important fact to bear in mind as the story unfolds.(Continues...)Excerpted from Supercapitalism by Robert B. Reich Copyright © 2007 by Robert B. Reich. Excerpted by permission. All rights reserved. No part of this excerpt may be reproduced or reprinted without permission in writing from the publisher. Excerpts are provided by Dial-A-Book Inc. solely for the personal use of visitors to this web site.HAVE you ever wondered if someone is making  more money than you are for doing basically the same job?Wonder no more, Richard Sine writes in Men's Health. The answer is probably yes.There are a number of factors,  geography among them, that could explain why one person is underpaid and another is not.  Moving, he wrote, may  be extremely profitable, even taking a higher cost of living into account."You may have seen those surveys showing that salaries are higher in places like New York and Chicago," Mr. Sine wrote. "But you also know that rents in those same areas are reckoned in actual human flesh. So, it's pretty much a wash, right? Not necessarily."For example, the average nurse would receive a 78 percent raise by moving  to San Francisco from Birmingham, Ala.,  he wrote.Certain industries also generally pay better, he added. An accountant for an Internet concern makes 44 percent more than someone who does a similar job  for  a hotel or grocery store.And all things being equal, people are paid more if their job is seen as central to what the company does.For example, odds are a graphic designer is going to make more money at an advertising or communications company than  working for a company that makes tires."Ultimately, compensation has nothing to do with education or loyalty," Mr. Sine wrote. "It's simply a measure of our ability to bring profit to our employers."MORE MONEY, PLEASE Many people find it hard to ask for a raise. Essence magazine offers various strategies  to overcome that problem.One is to find out the going rate. "Resources such as salary.com can give you the average pay for your position in your industry based on your location," Zulaika Jumaralli writes.Also, evaluate yourself. At least once a year compare what you are actually doing  to the job specifications. The more responsibilities you have taken on, the easier it will be to make the case for a raise.WHO'S YOUR CUSTOMER? The adage  "Listen to your customer" is Business 101.But "the real trick is to develop effective ways to listen to potential  consumers," argued Jairo Senise, chief executive of Gruma, a $2.5 billion  maker of flat breads that is based in Mexico.The only way a company will be able to expand successfully is by understanding how, if at all, it  needs to adapt its  product to satisfy the local tastes of the new market it  plans to enter, he wrote in Strategy + Business.The first step, he wrote, is  to really know  if the target customers have any interest in what the company plans to offer them."Are they willing to try something new, and specifically, are they willing to try your new product," Mr. Senise wrote. "If the psychographic research shows they are not," then nothing else you plan to do really matters. .If the research shows that consumers are willing to give a  new product a try, then the question becomes how the company can adapt it to incorporate local tastes."For Gruma, it is a matter of figuring out which flavors and textures a particular market prefers," he writes. "But this idea applies to all consumer products companies with a global strategy. A company selling detergent must pay attention to the fragrance the soap gives the clothes."FINAL TAKE It's not your imagination: Your electronic in-box is ridiculously crowded. "Corporate e-mail users send and receive an average of 133 messages per day," Reader's Digest reported, citing work by the Radicati Group, a computer and telecommunications research firm.  The number of daily  messages is expected to climb to 160 by 2009.PAUL B. BROWNHOW rich are you?A million dollars certainly isn't what it used to be, but it is still a reasonable benchmark to use for saying someone is well off.And it appears a lot of Americans  are well off.There are 9.3 million  households in the United States — about one of  every 12 — with a net worth of at least $1 million, writes Financial Planning magazine, citing figures compiled by the Phoenix Companies and TNS Financial Services.Net worth here is defined oddly: It is the value of all assets a household owns, minus debts and the value of the primary residence. (But while the primary residence is not counted, a second home and  other real estate is.)Traditionally, when financial planners talk about high-net-worth individuals, they mean people with   at least $1 million in assets to invest. The numbers here are impressive as well."Of the 114 million houses in the U.S., roughly 109 million, or 95 percent, have less than $1 million in investable assets," writes Elizabeth O'Brien. But there are about five million households "with $1 million to $10 million to invest; 200,000 households with $10 million to $25 million to invest" and another 40,000 designated  "ultra-high net worth," who have more than $25 million in investable assets.BARGAIN HUNTING The stock market volatility lately is, to say the least, unsettling."But these moments, which can make the squeamish reach for the Pepto-Bismol, also can be golden opportunities for patient investors," Russell Pearlman writes in Smart Money."Traders can forget just how valuable a firm's underlying business really is," he writes. "Just as scary as buying a stock that has been hammered in shaky times like these is buying a growth stock that has been soaring and trades at a high valuation. But in either case, patient and discerning investors can make a killing."He then identifies five stocks, labeled "the new Pepto Portfolio." Three have been punished by Wall Street relatively recently: Amgen, Best Buy and Washington Mutual. The other two  — Precision Castparts and Foster Wheeler — have been trading at higher multiples than some investors would like, but, Mr. Pearlman says, are worth the price.GOING (FOR THE) GREEN There have been countless articles about where to invest to capitalize on the interest in going green.But what is so appealing about the Kiplinger's article by David Landis and Andrew Tanzer on 25 stocks that will benefit from the green movement  is that it goes beyond naming the usual suspects.Yes, they mention General Electric, which manufactures wind turbines and clean coal technology, and the makers of solar cells and panels like  SunPower.But the article goes out of its way to point out ways that other companies that do not instantly spring to mind could benefit as well.For example, as environmental laws grow more stringent, the insurer American International Group, "has been writing policies that protect business against environmental claims since the early 1980s" and is likely to get more business.Also, how about American Standard, which is "a leader in energy-efficient air-conditioning and climate control systems."FINAL TAKE Asa Fitch in Money magazine provides a gentle reminder not to try to time the market."You'd have made 7.4 percent in the average stock fund if you bought in 1997 and held on," reports Morningstar. "But actual investors made just 5.9 percent, in part because they kept popping in and out of the market trying to anticipate its swings. Moral: stay calm and stay put."PAUL B. BROWN As bad as the California fires look on television and as horrible as they are for families with homes in their path, the wildfires are doing much less damage than Hurricane Katrina two years ago, and they are going to cost only a fraction of the $41.1 billion that insurance companies paid out for the hurricane.Nearly 1,500 homes have been destroyed so far by the fires, and hundreds more have been damaged. Financial analysts and insurance experts are estimating the potential costs to insurers to be about $1 billion.But the property insurance industry — with more than $513 billion in capital — can take that kind of a loss in stride. It reported more than $450 billion in sales of policies last year, and a record profit of nearly $65 billion.So right now, from a business standpoint, "the losses look pretty minimal," said Loretta L. Worters, a spokeswoman for the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York.For families who lose their homes, of course, rebuilding will be a lengthy struggle, as insurance companies haggle over what is covered and what is not. With concentrations of dozens of homes destroyed, it is also going to be difficult to get contractors to start rebuilding. Costs for materials like plywood and roofing tiles are likely to skyrocket, as they did after Hurricane Katrina and other storms."There's a lot of anxiety, I don't care who you are," said Andrew Barile, an insurance consultant who grabbed passports and bank statements and a handful of clothes and, with his wife and son, evacuated his five-bedroom home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., at 8 a.m. Monday.Settling claims, however, is generally expected to be more straightforward than after Hurricane Katrina. In that storm, much of the damage was caused by flooding, which is not covered by most home insurance policies. Thousands of homeowners argued in lawsuits that the flooding they experienced had been caused by hurricane winds and that their policies should pay, leading to lengthy court fights. The courts have general ruled in favor of the insurance companies.Fire, on the other hand, was the first coverage contained in the first home insurance policy hundreds of years ago, and it is clear that insurance companies must cover it. But Randy Maniloff, a lawyer in Philadelphia who specializes in defending insurance companies, said many homeowners would probably find that they did not buy enough coverage to rebuild their homes.After the worst recent outbreak of wildfires destroyed several thousand homes on the edge of San Diego in 2003, homeowners filed hundreds of lawsuits, Mr. Maniloff said, claiming that their agents and insurance companies should have advised them to buy more coverage. But this past April, he said, the first trial involving those cases ended in favor of the insurance company.Before the fires, insurance experts said, insurers were competing with one another for customers in California and offering many options as incentives. Now, some experts say they expect the insurers to tighten their standards by not selling or renewing policies in some areas with high risk of fires.But Robert P. Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute, said he expected few if any changes in the availability and price of home insurance in California."An event of this magnitude is already built into the rates," he said. "The risk is already reflected in the price of coverage. People in the high-risk areas already pay much more for coverage than people who live in areas that are not so prone to fire."Insurers will have to pay more for evacuations caused by this disaster than they did after Hurricane Katrina. While many homeowners had to rely on the federal government to pay for hotels, meals and other extra daily costs resulting from the evacuation, California law requires insurers to pay such costs. In all other states, insurance companies have to pay only for so-called additional living expenses when there is damage to a home.IT is now hidden under renovation tarps, but in 1877, when the chunky cast-iron B. Altman department store opened on Sixth Avenue at 19th Street, it played a major part in attracting retailers like Siegel-Cooper to this stretch of the avenue in the 1890s.By 1904, however, Benjamin Altman had seen the future and realized it was Fifth Avenue.Born in 1840, Altman set out on his own in 1865, after having learned the dry-goods trade working in his father's business. His first move was to lower Sixth Avenue, not far from the emerging retail strip of West 14th Street.By 1877, he opened his new four-story store at the southwest corner of 19th and Sixth with a cast-iron facade designed by David and John Jardine.The Daily Graphic described the "thousands of ladies, who swarmed like bees over the three first floors" on opening day, saying that the staff had "all they could do taking orders for hunting suits, for grenadine dresses with damasked polonaise and trimming of white and black French lace, and for the pretty morning dresses."The next year the Sixth Avenue elevated train began running, bringing with it yet more customers. In October 1881, The New York Times reported the "most superb novelty" in women's coats: "a Persian camel's hair dolman, with all the hues of a rainbow woven into the fabric." Also for sale: a white satin dress by Charles Worth embroidered with grasses and ferns, with a brilliant row of large silk butterflies.In an article on early department stores, published in "Valentine's Manual of Old New York" (Charles Scribner's Sons, 1921), John Crawford Brown described B. Altman as "the best for ladies' apparel, cloaks, coats and so forth," especially for sealskin. "To have the Altman name on your coat or muff or seal collar was equivalent to the hallmark on sterling silver," he said.B. Altman later expanded southward to the corner of 18th Street. By 1900, it had been joined — overshadowed, even — by big stores like Siegel-Cooper, Adams & Company, Ehrich & Sons and others.In 1896 The Times reported that Altman had hired the architectural firm of Kimball & Thompson to extend the store and transform it with a limestone front in the Spanish Renaissance style, with towers at the corners. He did expand — installing a great central dome of hundreds of round plugs of glass supported by decorated iron beams — but he left his old cast-iron facade as it was.Altman was hedging his bets. In the early 1890s he had begun buying property on Fifth Avenue near 34th Street. Some smaller chic stores were already relocating to Fifth Avenue, and Sixth Avenue was recognized for mass, not class.In 1902, Macy's moved from 14th Street to 34th, where Broadway crosses Sixth Avenue, an apparent ratification of the importance of Sixth. But two years later, Altman announced plans to build  at 34th and Fifth. The building now houses the Science, Industry and Business Library.The vast Fifth Avenue store, with a French limestone facade, opened in 1906 (although sections were not completed until 1914, a year after Altman died). It established a new center of retail gravity on Fifth.In 1906 The Real Estate Record & Guide, while calling the new B. Altman "the finest and largest retail dry-goods store in the city," remained unconvinced of the passing of an era and called Sixth Avenue from 14th to 23rd Streets "the greatest shopping center in the world."In 1907, Greenhut & Company, another dry-goods firm, opened in the old B. Altman store. Joseph B. Greenhut, the founder, told The Times in 1911 that Sixth Avenue was unrivaled for large stores. "We won't see much change in our lifetime," he said.But the exodus from Sixth Avenue continued. As other stores continued to relocate or simply closed, hundreds of thousands of square feet of retail space were thrown on the market. Mr. Greenhut died in November 1918, seven months after his store closed for good.The old B. Altman store and the retail buildings were taken over for lofts or other miscellaneous uses, and until the 1980s this section of Sixth Avenue   was like a La Brea Tar Pit of retail architecture, with its huge dinosaurlike buildings mired in neglect.Gradually they were freed, several with significant restorations. Now the firm of Howard L. Zimmerman, Architects, is supervising a facade renovation of the old B. Altman building, where the Container Store now occupies retail space on the avenue.Ilya Shtulberg, an engineer with the firm, says the cast-iron facade is "in decent shape" and will be secured with stainless-steel pins. The iron will be repainted light gray. While perhaps not the original color, this is the existing color and will permit a quick review by the Landmarks Preservation Commission.WASHINGTON, Oct. 24 — The House's leading Democratic tax writer will propose a sweeping overhaul of the tax code on Thursday that would increase taxes on many people with incomes above $200,000 but cut them for most others.The bill, to be introduced by Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, would also overhaul corporate taxes by eliminating many major tax breaks and lowering overall tax rates.Mr. Rangel has acknowledged that he does not expect to enact such a bill this year, and President Bush would almost certainly veto legislation that raises taxes on the wealthy.The plan is probably most important as a preview of what Democrats are likely to pursue after the 2008  elections, especially in rolling back a good part of Mr. Bush's tax cuts for people at the top of the income ladder.On individual taxes, the heart of his plan calls for eliminating the alternative minimum tax  —  which was originally created to prevent millionaires from taking too great advantage of tax breaks but now touches people with upper middle incomes and is poised to affect tens of millions of families with incomes as low as $50,000 a year.Eliminating the alternative tax would reduce projected revenue by almost $800 billion over the next 10 years, according to Congressional estimates.Mr. Rangel's bill would also expand some tax breaks for middle- and low-income people. It would increase the standard deduction, at a cost of $48 billion over 10 years. And it would widen the earned- income tax credit, which primarily benefits working single parents with low incomes, to include more low-income workers who do not have children. That would cost $29 billion over 10 years.To offset the cost of those reductions, the bill would impose a new "replacement tax" for the top 10 percent of income earners who would have otherwise had to pay the alternative minimum tax.The replacement tax would not apply to couples with incomes as low as $200,000, but aides to Mr. Rangel said many people with incomes as high as $500,000 would still end up with at least slightly lower taxes than under current law.In effect, the bill would roll back a big part of Mr. Bush's tax cuts for people with top incomes. In that respect, it is similar to the general positions on taxes that most of the Democratic presidential contenders have taken.On Wednesday, Mr. Rangel described his plan as harking back to the tax overhaul of 1986, which was negotiated in Congress and signed by President Ronald Reagan. That legislation eliminated scores of tax breaks and sharply reduced the highest rates."It is my hope that the Bush administration will seize this opportunity," Mr. Rangel said in a written statement, "as the Reagan administration did 21 years ago, to work with Congress to simplify the tax code and put money back in the pockets of working families."That is unlikely to happen, because Mr. Bush views his tax cuts as one of his signature achievements.In contrast to the bill's provisions for individual income taxes, Mr. Rangel's proposals for corporate taxes are in many ways similar to ideas championed by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.Mr. Paulson has argued that it is possible to reduce corporate tax rates substantially by eliminating breaks like the tax credit for research and development and by simplifying the tax code.Mr. Rangel's plan would reduce the top corporate rate to 30.5 percent from 35 percent now, costing an estimated $364 billion over 10 years.To make up for that lost revenue, the bill would eliminate a variety of tax breaks  — many of them ones business groups fought hard to achieve in a sprawling corporate tax measure just three years ago.Mr. Rangel's biggest revenue-raiser would come from eliminating a special tax break on profits from domestic manufacturing —  a provision that Democrats championed in 2004 over the  opposition of  Mr. Bush.But even if the administration agrees with that idea, it is likely to oppose provisions that would make it harder for American companies to escape income taxes on profits from their foreign subsidiaries. Those provisions would raise $106 billion over 10 years, but they affect tax breaks that provide major benefits to the pharmaceutical industry, international banks and globe-spanning conglomerates like General Electric.MOSCOW, Oct. 25 — Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the jailed former Yukos Oil chief executive, is unlikely to be released from prison anytime soon, one of his lawyers said in Moscow on Thursday, the halfway point of his eight-year term.Mr. Khodorkovsky, who was arrested on Oct. 25, 2003, would have been eligible to file for parole on Thursday, but demerits for disputed infractions made it unlikely he would be granted early release from a Siberian prison, said the lawyer, Yuri Schmidt."Ten days before it was possible for him to apply he was reprimanded for not having his hands behind his back after returning from a prison walk," Mr. Schmidt said at a news conference in Moscow.He said that previous penalties, for such things as keeping "unauthorized" lemons in his cell, had been overturned in court appeals, and that this latest would be appealed as well.The arrest of Mr. Khodorkovsky was regarded as a turning point in the rule of President Vladimir V. Putin, as the Kremlin began to rein in business executives who had profited from the enormous post-Soviet privatizations in the 1990s.Yukos, which Mr. Khodorkovsky built into Russia's largest oil company, was dismantled and sold off after his arrest. Major assets were bought by Rosneft, the state oil company, earlier this year.In a declaration issued on the anniversary of Mr. Khodorkovsky's arrest, Russian human rights advocates called the Yukos case "the first show trial of the post-Stalin era, and an affair which has radically altered the political and economic landscape of our country."Among the signatories were Lyudmila Alekseyeva, the chairwoman of the Moscow Helsinki Group, and Yuri Samodurov, director of the Andrei Sakharov Museum.Mr. Khodorkovsky and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, were arrested and jailed on tax evasion and other charges. They had new charges of embezzlement and money laundering brought against them by Russian prosecutors earlier this year. Their lawyers have said the new charges could result in 15-year prison sentences.Both men are imprisoned in the Siberian city of Chita.On Thursday, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France, found five violations in Russia's procedures against Mr. Lebedev, including unauthorized detention in 2004 and delays in review of his detention order. The court ruled that Russia must pay him $14,200 in damages and legal costs.At the news conference in Moscow, Mr. Schmidt described Mr. Khodorkovsky's average day in prison, saying he rose at 6 a.m. and, after breakfast, was able to watch the television news and read newspapers and magazines. Mr. Schmidt said Mr. Khodorkovsky subscribed to up to 70 publications and had read approximately 100 books in nine months, "a lot of history, philosophy and memoirs."He is kept on a special floor with up to 10 prisoners and no fewer than 20 guards, Mr. Schmidt said. He is allowed two visits of two hours each from family members per month, but has ordered them to make the 3,700-mile trip from Moscow no more than once a month. Mr. Khodorkovsky is allowed to use the banya, or bathhouse, once a week.On weekends, he "thinks and writes a lot," Mr. Schmidt said."He thinks that if oil prices remain high, well-being will last until 2015-17," Mr. Schmidt wrote in a statement passed out at the news conference. "Then there will be a crisis. If they fall — it will happen much sooner. For Russia, he wishes only good."Dr. Katherine Wallace Shister, a daughter of Susan W. McCallion of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Neil B. Shister of Washington, was married yesterday to Andrew Joseph Kohari, the son of Michele Kohari and John M. Kohari of Ridgefield, Conn. The Rev. Thomas E. Nicoll, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony at St. John's Church in Larchmont, N.Y.Dr. Kohari, 26, is an intern in obstetrics and gynecology at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. She graduated from Vanderbilt and  New York Medical College. Her father is the editorial director of World Trade Magazine, a business publication in Washington. Her mother is the president and chief operating officer of the Block Island Group, a holding company in New York.Mr. Kohari, 27, is a sales and marketing manager at Beiersdorf, the German skin-care manufacturer, in Wilton, Conn. He graduated from the University of Dayton. His mother is the communications manager at Founders Hall, a center for the elderly in Ridgefield. His father is a managing director and the chief operating officer for cash management in the transaction services business unit of Citigroup in New York.WASHINGTON, Oct. 22 — Executives at the two biggest phone companies contributed more than $42,000 in political donations to Senator John D. Rockefeller IV this year while seeking his support for legal immunity for businesses participating in National Security Agency eavesdropping.The surge in contributions came from a Who's Who of executives at the companies, AT&T and Verizon, starting with the chief executives and including at least 50 executives and lawyers at the two utilities, according to campaign finance reports.The money came primarily from a fund-raiser that Verizon held for Mr. Rockefeller in March in New York and another that AT&T sponsored for him in May in San Antonio.Mr. Rockefeller, chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, emerged last week as the most important supporter of immunity in devising a compromise plan with Senate Republicans and the Bush administration.A measure approved by the intelligence panel on Thursday would add restrictions on the eavesdropping and extend retroactive immunity to carriers that participated in it. President Bush secretly approved the program after the Sept. 11 attacks.Mr. Rockefeller's office said Monday that the sharp increases in contributions from the telecommunications executives had no influence on his support for the immunity provision."Any suggestion that Senator Rockefeller would make policy decisions based on campaign contributions is patently false," Wendy Morigi, a spokeswoman for him, said. "He made his decision to support limited immunity based on the Intelligence Committee's careful review of the situation and our national security interests."AT&T and Verizon have been lobbying hard to insulate themselves from suits over their reported roles in the security agency program by gaining legal immunity from Congress. The effort included meetings with Mr. Rockefeller and other members of the intelligence panels, officials said.The companies face suits from customers who say their privacy was violated. Administration officials say they worry that the suits, pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, could bankrupt the utilities.House Democrats have balked at the immunity, refusing to include it in a bill they drew up and saying they would not even consider it unless the administration produced long-sought documents on the origins of the program.Mr. Rockefeller received little in the way of contributions from AT&T or Verizon executives before this year, reporting $4,050 from 2002 through 2006. From last March to June, he collected a total of $42,850 from executives at the two companies. The increase was first reported by the online journal Wired, using data compiled by the Web site OpenSecrets.org.Neither Mr. Rockefeller's predecessor as committee chairman or his House counterpart  received increases in contributions from the phone companies, records show. But industry executives have given significant contributions to a number of other Washington politicians, including two presidential contenders, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and John McCain.A spokeswoman for AT&T, Claudia B. Jones, said contributions from its executives related to Mr. Rockefeller's role on the Senate Commerce Committee, not immunity or other questions before the Intelligence Committee."Many AT&T executives work with the leaders of both the House and Senate Commerce Committees on a daily basis and have come to know them over the years," Ms. Jones said.She added that although industry executives and politicians might not always agree, it is "commonplace for AT&T employees to regularly and voluntarily participate in the political process with their own funds."Ms. Morigi, in Mr. Rockefeller's office, said the senator had had numerous meetings with his aides about immunity for a year and came to believe that the carriers needed legal protection to ensure cooperation on national security operations.On other questions, she said, he has disagreed with the industry. Ms. Morigi pointed to his sponsorship of a separate bill to give cellphone subscribers more protections in their contracts. That bill, unlike the immunity provision, has been vigorously opposed by the industry.She also said that the increased contributions from industry executives reflected a record fund-raising year for Mr. Rockefeller and that his contributions from many sectors had "skyrocketed."Mr. Rockefeller is up for re-election next year. No opponents have declared their intention to try and unseat him.The senator has raised $3.1 million this year, in part through 107 campaign events, according to his office. He has promised not to use any of his personal fortune to finance his campaign."The idea that John Rockefeller could be bought is kind of ridiculous," said Matt Bennett, vice president for Third Way, a moderate Democratic policy group that has supported immunity for the phone carriers."That these companies are going to focus their lobbying efforts where their business interests are is no revelation," Mr. Bennett said. "That's the standard Washington way of doing business. But you're not going to buy a Rockefeller."Meredith McGehee, policy director for the Campaign Legal Center, a group promoting stricter campaign finance laws, said contributions like those to Mr. Rockefeller created an appearance problem that "corrode public confidence" in the political system."We have so many examples like this of people on relevant committees receiving these contributions from people who are under their jurisdictions," Ms. McGehee said. "It's sad to say, but it is pretty much business as usual in Washington. And it shows why so many Americans just shake their heads over the way Washington works."
