PRO bono isn't just for bleeding hearts anymore," The American Lawyer writes. "Very quietly, big firms are taking on conservative causes as well."Typically law firms will provide some services free. They classify the work as "pro bono publico," from Latin, meaning for the public good. And the term is usually shortened to pro bono, as in a lawyer representing a client free is described as working pro bono.Because the services are typically offered to those who do not have the ability to pay, pro bono work has been associated with liberal causes. But that is changing, Vivia Chen writes."Bolstered by influential groups like the Federalist Society, religious organizations and pro bono advocates, big firms now regularly champion libertarian causes such as free speech and property rights," she writes. Some are challenging race-based policies and representing groups opposed to gay rights and abortion.For the most part, the lawyers interviewed in the article said that taking on conservative causes does not cause problems within the firm or with their paying clients.For example, Donald B. Ayer, Jones Day's pro bono partner, said that at his firm, lawyers can take on almost any project, providing there is no conflict of interest. "It's a free country."All this can lead to some strange bedfellows."In the Bong Hits 4 Jesus case recently argued before the Supreme Court, the American Civil Liberties Union sided with evangelical Christian groups to challenge restrictions on high school students," Ms. Chen writes.The court ruled against the students.PERCEPTION/REALITY You probably have a pretty clear image of who drives a hybrid.Odds are that that image is wrong.According to Reader's Digest, which cites research done by Autobytel.com, the facts about hybrid owners are:¶40 percent are Republicans, and 36 percent are Democrats.¶31 percent are in the Northeast and 21 percent in the Midwest. Just 16 percent live on the West Coast.¶57 percent are over age 45.¶About half (49 percent) don't have a college degree, and 35 percent make less than $40,000 a year.COMPLAINING 101 Just in time for the seemingly endless airline delays this summer, Black Enterprise offers a refresher course about how to complain effectively to the people who run the airlines (or any other business).The first step is to "go to the source." If the company has a formal complaint procedure, "follow it to the letter. Be sure to keep copies of everything."Then put it in writing. "Mail is best, since phone calls may be routed to a call center," which may not have the authority to do what you want, and "e-mails can be easily ignored." The magazine suggested sending everything certified mail with return receipt requested so that the company won't be able to say later that it never got your letter.Make sure you are clear, factual and unemotional in detailing what went wrong. Include names and dates. "The more specific you can be the better."Finally, tell the company exactly what they can do to make you happy. If you want your money back, say so.INFLUENTIAL TV Ladies Home Journal wonders whether it is the "Grey's Anatomy" effect, referring to the fictional television program that shows that all doctors are remarkably good-looking people who have endlessly fascinating lives."In a new poll of 1,500 teenagers, 'doctor' came in first as girl's most desirable career, with 10 percent naming it their ideal job," the magazine writes. "When 'The Apprentice' premiered three years ago, 'businessperson' topped the charts."Clearly, there needs to be more TV shows about people who write for newspapers.FINAL TAKE You already know it costs a fortune to rear a child, but here is more bad news for parents. Charles Schwab surveyed a representative sample of teenagers and asked them how old they thought they would be when they became "financially independent."The answer, says Money magazine: 25.MOSCOW, July 30 — The owner of Russneft, one of Russia's largest private oil companies, confirmed Monday that he would sell the business to an investor loyal to the Kremlin, but he added in an open letter that the sale was not voluntary.Mikhail S. Gutseriev, who was once in the tight coterie of Russian billionaires known as oligarchs but has since fallen from favor, accused the government of President Vladimir V. Putin of forcing him out of the company using trumped-up tax claims.The critical letter was the first significant public challenge to Mr. Putin from an influential businessman since the imprisonment four years ago of Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former chairman of Yukos Oil, who is serving an eight-year sentence in Siberia. The development left analysts wondering what the future holds now for Mr. Gutseriev.In a letter that was published on his company Web site on Monday but had been removed by Monday evening, Mr. Gutseriev maintained that the government was using regulatory pressure on both foreign and domestic producers as a pretext to expropriate oil and natural gas property privatized in the 1990s, as part of an effort to effectively nationalize the energy industry."They made me an offer to leave the oil business, to leave 'on good terms,' " Mr. Gutseriev wrote in the letter, which was also published in Russia's largest business newspaper, Vedomosti. "I refused.""Then, to make me more amenable, they tightened the screws on the company with unprecedented persecution," he wrote.Oleg V. Deripaska, one of Russia's wealthiest businessmen and an ally of Mr. Putin, applied on Friday for regulatory approval to acquire the oil company. In a statement, his holding company, Basic Element, said Russneft would be incorporated into a subsidiary called En+, which also owns Rusal, Russia's largest aluminum producer.Mr. Gutseriev said he decided to sell rather than risk his company's dismantlement and further harassment of his employees. He has denied any wrongdoing in forming Russneft in 2002."I am giving control of the holding to an owner, with whose appearance, I am certain, all the problems of Russneft will in time be solved," Mr. Gutseriev wrote. In an echo of the Yukos case, which began in 2003, the police charged Mr. Gutseriev with illegal business activity in May.Last autumn, Russian regulators pressured Royal Dutch Shell about environmental infractions in increasingly shrill terms, at one point threatening to sue for each tree cut down on a pipeline project. Shell and two Japanese partners, in response, sold 50 percent plus one share in the Sakhalin II project to the state energy giant Gazprom.Then, in June, BP's local joint venture in Russia, TNK-BP, sold a controlling stake in a large natural gas project to Gazprom for a below-market price after being pressed by regulators for developing the field too slowly, a violation of a license technicality.In both cases, the foreign companies made no public protest or statement pointing out that the nominal claims against their operations in Russia appeared to be pretexts to force a sale, the point that Mr. Gutseriev made Monday."As everybody in the world knows, you don't fight city hall, and in Russia you don't fight the Kremlin," Chris Weafer, the chief analyst at Alfa Bank, said in a telephone interview. "When the Kremlin comes calling and says 'we want to buy your business,' the only talk is about price and terms."A spokesman for Basic Element did not return calls requesting comment on Mr. Gutseriev's claim that the transaction involving Russneft was not voluntary, something that could prove a stain on Mr. Deripaska's business reputation as he expands his mining-to-automotive empire outside Russia's borders.The board of Russneft issued a statement Monday saying Mr. Gutseriev had resigned as director and would halt other business activity in Russia as well.LOUISVILLE, Ky., July 30 (AP) — The health insurer Humana  Inc. reported Monday that its second-quarter profit more than doubled from a year ago on the strength of improved cost controls and sharply higher income from its government business.Humana, based in Louisville, posted net income of $216.8 million, or $1.28 a share, compared with $89.5 million, or 53 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.Analysts had been expecting a profit of $1.17 a share for the quarter.Revenue rose 19 percent, to $6.43 billion, compared with $5.41 billion a year ago, while premium and administrative service fees were up 18 percent, mainly driven by higher average Medicare membership.Michael B. McCallister, Humana's president and chief executive, called it "probably the best quarter we've had" since he became the company's chief executive in 2000. He said it was a result of "virtually every line of business doing better," noting improvements in the commercial segment and expansion of the company's Medicare business.The company also reaffirmed its full-year earnings projection for profit of $4.40 to $4.50 a share, up from $2.90 in fiscal 2006.Shares of Humana rose 27 cents, to $65.08 yesterday.Jennifer Yuki Gordon, a daughter of Yoshie and Andrew D. Gordon of Newton, Mass., was married yesterday to Luke Comins Donohoe Stein, a son of B. Jill Comins and Howard S. Stein of Manhattan. The ceremony, at the Eleanor Cabot Bradley Estate in Canton, Mass., was led by Raymond M. Schwarz, an uncle of the bridegroom, who received permission from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to officiate.The couple met at Harvard, from which both graduated magna cum laude.Mrs. Stein, 27, received a master's degree in public administration from Syracuse University in June. Her father is the Lee and Juliet Folger Fund professor of history at Harvard and was until June the chairman of the history department there. Her mother is the business manager of the Boston campus of Showa Women's University of Tokyo.Mr. Stein, 26, is a doctoral candidate in economics at Stanford. His mother is a psychoanalyst practicing in Manhattan. His father retired as a managing director for risk management in the global corporate and investment banking unit of Citigroup. He is now a risk management consultant in Manhattan, as well as the treasurer of both WNYC, the public radio station in Manhattan, and of Pratt Institute in Brooklyn.
