"IT'S alluring and very much in vogue to connect social responsibility with profitability," an article in The Harvard Business Review begins. "If you can make a business case for positive social action, everybody wins — employees, shareholders and society at large."That, of course, leads to the question: Is there such a link?The issue has been studied to death. And after reviewing a huge number of the studies, the writers say, the answer  is that if there is a link, it is "not a strong one."Joshua D. Margolis of Harvard Business School and Hillary Anger Elfenbein of the University of California, Berkeley, say they analyzed 167 studies conducted in the last 35 years that examined the issue of whether social responsibility leads to increased profitability and found that while it certainly did not hurt —  that is it did not diminish shareholder value —  there was only "a very small correlation between corporate behavior and good financial results."And that minor correlation, they add, could be explained by the fact that companies that  have performed well over a long period of time have enough money to contribute positively to society.Conversely, corporate misdeeds, once they become known, do have a significant negative impact on financial performance.So, intriguingly, it is easier to prove the negative in this case."Perhaps the easiest way to communicate our findings is to say that only 2 percent of the studies we reviewed showed that managers who dedicate corporate resources to social performance — taking actions that consider in the interests of society — impose a direct cost to shareholders," they write. "Companies can do good and do well, even if they don't do well by doing good."STAYING PUT For years,  senior executives have been worrying about how to capture all the knowledge of their baby boomer employees who are expected to start retiring soon (the oldest of the boomers are now 62).But it appears that older workers are not in any hurry to retire.In fact, they show   signs that they will continue working,  according to HR magazine, citing figures from the  Bureau of Labor Statistics, which show that the number  of workers older than 64 is expected to increase by 74 percent from  2004 to  2014.That  is "nine times faster than the number of workers between the ages of 35 to 44," the magazine points out.The magazine gives no reason for the  growth  in older workers. But data suggests that a majority of people in their 60s have not saved enough to retire the way they want.  Another explanation could be that  most people in their 60s today do not consider themselves to be old."Baby boomers represent about one-fifth of the work force and most of senior corporate leadership, according to Novations, a global consulting and training firm," the magazine says.EASIER UPGRADE As has been well documented, using frequent-flier miles to obtain an upgrade has become much more difficult since airlines have started to reduce capacity on their domestic routes.One way to increase your chances, writes Julie Moline in Entrepreneur,  is: "Don't fly out of your preferred carrier's hub. There is less competition for upgrades from secondary airports."FINAL TAKE Here's one way to (seemingly) gain a dramatic return on your money, courtesy of "Next Month's Business News" in Condé Nast's Portfolio."In keeping with its philosophy of offering upbeat business news, the Fox Business Network will begin broadcasting Nasdaq quotes from 1999," Andy Borowitz writes, with tongue firmly in cheek.In case you have forgotten, the Nasdaq was at 4,069 as 1999 came to an end. It closed at  2, 340.02 on Friday.  PAUL  B. BROWNSuccessful entrepreneurs invariably say that they have learned as much from their failures as their successes.Counterintuitive as that may sound, there is something to it, Jeff Wuorio writes.Among the advantages, he contends, are these:¶ Failure underscores the need to take chances. The cliché is right: If you take no risks, there will be no rewards. And if you are taking risks, almost by definition, you are going to fail at some point.¶ "Success can breed complacency." If everything goes right all the time, you are less likely to try something new.¶ Failure  can force you to rethink every assumption. "When something goes wrong, not only do you consider the various means of fixing that particular problem, you notch up your thinking to identify those broader elements that may have led to the snafu and others like it. And down the line, that can mean solutions and adjustments before any further problems even crop up."OFF-THE-SHELF It can be difficult to convince yourself that failure is all right. If you need to remind yourself that it is, pick up the book "Whoever Makes the Most Mistakes Wins: The Paradox of Innovation," by Richard Farson and Ralph Keyes. (Free Press, $22.)Their basic  argument is that if you are not making mistakes, you are not trying hard enough and if you think that winning is all that matters, you are bound to be too cautious."Stressing winning inhibits daring," they write. "Those who take genuine risks know that failure is the norm, success the exception."SEE NO EVIL Why is it so hard for us to learn from our mistakes? In a "working knowledge" paper prepared for the Harvard Business School Amy C. Edmondson, a professor of leadership and management at the school, and Mark D. Cannon, an assistant professor of leadership at  Vanderbilt University, offer three reasons."Social systems tend to discourage this kind of analysis," they write. "First, individuals experience negative emotions when examining their own failures, and this can chip away at self-confidence and self-esteem. Most people prefer to put past mistakes behind them rather than revisit and unpack them for greater understanding."Second, conducting an analysis of a failure requires a spirit of inquiry and openness, patience, and a tolerance for ambiguity," they add. "However, most managers admire and are rewarded for decisiveness, efficiency, and action rather than for deep reflection and painstaking analysis."And finally people may not like the answers they come up."People tend to be more comfortable attending to evidence that enables them to believe what they want to believe, denying responsibility for failures and attributing the problem to others or to 'the system.' We would prefer to move on to something more pleasant. Rigorous analysis of failure requires that people, at least temporarily, put aside these tendencies to explore unpleasant truths and take personal responsibility."A FORMULA FOR SUCCESS David Silver, a venture capitalist and the author of "Smart Start-ups," has come up with a formula to  predict whether a new company will succeed, Mark Henricks writes in Entrepreneur.The equation: V = P x S x EV stands for valuation, or the worth of the start-up. P is the problem the business is trying to solve. S stands for the "elegance of the solution" and E  the experience of the management team. The maximum value for any of the three  is three — meaning the maximum a start-up can be "worth"   is 27. The higher the score the better.If "V" is zero, or a small number, presumably the business is doomed.Who knew it was this simple?LAST CALL Fortune Small Business  asked Saul Griffith, co-founder of several start-ups, including Makani Power, which harnesses high-altitude wind energy, what advice he would give fellow entrepreneurs.This is the answer from Mr. Griffith, the winner of a MacArthur Fellowship "genius grant," which may make dealing with failure more tolerable (if no more appealing):"Learn to live cheaply. Learn to live like an animal. One thing we had going for us is we all spent a lot of time in grad school, and long periods of grad school teach you how to live well on a low budget. That's good training for becoming entrepreneurs. It's easier to have a high-risk tolerance when you know where the Dumpsters with free food are."WASHINGTON — Six months after taking over as president of the World Bank, Robert B. Zoellick faced new turmoil on Wednesday over a campaign against corruption in bank lending, with the resignation of the chief of the bank's antifraud unit.Bank officials said that despite Mr. Zoellick's efforts to heal the wounds left from the stormy tenure of his predecessor, Paul D. Wolfowitz, the resignation of Suzanne Rich Folsom, Mr. Wolfowitz's top deputy in his anticorruption campaign, was stirring new bitterness. They said that several of Ms. Folsom's aides were also resigning.Mr. Wolfowitz, who had made the battle against corruption a priority, was ousted as bank president last year after the disclosure that he had arranged a pay increase and promotion for his companion, a bank employee, in 2005."There is just a lot of bad blood," said a bank official, speaking on the condition of anonymity in order to discuss internal matters. He added that many in the bank remained "allergic" to efforts to prosecute cases of fraud. Another official said that ties between Ms. Folsom and the bank had been on a "downward spiral" in recent months.Associates of Ms. Folsom said she had decided to leave her job because she had accomplished the goal of making the battle against corruption a major priority, but realized that opposition to her work by others had made it difficult for her to go on.News of her departure stirred mixed reactions within the bank, where many welcomed her decision, saying she had been selective in her prosecutions or overly aggressive, while others said she had done much to combat complacency.Relations between Mr. Zoellick and Ms. Folsom, which   were positive in the beginning, were described by many inside the bank as increasingly frayed in recent weeks, especially after editorials in The Wall Street Journal cited internal investigations and suggested that Ms. Folsom was being undercut and driven out.A spokesman for Mr. Zoellick, Marwan Muasher, a senior vice president for external affairs, said that Ms. Folsom had not been pushed out and that Mr. Zoellick had been entirely supportive."He did not force her out in any way, shape or form," Mr. Muasher said of Mr. Zoellick, adding that when Ms. Folsom told Mr. Zoellick last year that she wanted to leave for a job in private business, he offered her a different job at the bank and then asked her to stay until the bank completed its investigation of corruption in India.The report on India was released Friday, and it found extensive corruption in several Indian lending programs. The report was filled with pictures of shoddy construction work at hospitals, clinics and other facilities that had been certified as adequate. It also contained pledges by India to work with the bank on improving its procedures, but some officials in the bank said these were similar to ones made and not kept in the past.Ms. Folsom's resignation was announced Wednesday morning in a posting in the bank's internal Web site, without a statement praising her from Mr. Zoellick.Mr. Zoellick's office initially said he would make no comment about her departure so as not to interject himself into the matter, but later in the afternoon an aide issued a statement from him saying: "Suzanne has done a tremendous amount to push the anticorruption agenda forward, and I'm grateful for her service."Mr. Zoellick's aides say that, like Mr. Wolfowitz, he believes corruption is a high priority but that he intends to pursue the issue in a less divisive or confrontational way than had been the case in the past.Corruption is widely described as a problem in the bank's $30 billion annual lending programs for poor countries, but the extent is in dispute. Last September, an outside panel led by Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, found weak management, distrust and internal resistance to combating fraud at the bank.Mr. Zoellick, according to his aides, has sought to carry out broad changes in the way Ms. Folsom's unit interacts with other bank officials, and to install procedures on competitive bidding, inspections and disclosure that would prevent corruption instead of just prosecuting cases after the fact."It's all very well to talk about corruption and to have these reports," said Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a managing director at the bank and former finance minister of Nigeria, who negotiated the India agreement. "Bob Zoellick is geared toward implementation, and how we sustain this and embed it in a country."Ms. Okonjo-Iweala negotiated the arrangement with India to set up ways to rid programs of fraud. By contrast, Mr. Wolfowitz abruptly suspended aid to India after accusations of fraud in 2005, and that suspension angered board members and helped pave the way for his downfall, many bank officials say.Mr. Volcker praised Ms. Folsom and the integrity unit she headed last year, when he issued his report, but he also recommended changes in the way the unit functioned.Several bank officials said, however, that Mr. Volcker privately recommended to Ms. Folsom that since her work had been largely vindicated, she should consider resigning as a way of easing the toxic atmosphere left behind by Mr. Wolfowitz and by the fights between her department and others at the bank.Instead, Ms. Folsom stayed on, though associates say she had been pursuing possibilities of working outside the bank. Ms. Folsom declined to comment.Mr. Zoellick appointed an acting director to run the integrity unit, and his office said he would conduct a thorough search for a successor. One reason Ms. Folsom incurred the anger of bank staff was that she had served as an adviser to Mr. Wolfowitz before he appointed her over others recommended by a search committee.Ms. Folsom, a onetime activist in Republican Party politics, had been a partner in a law firm specializing in ethics issues. Defenders and critics said that she had considerable difficulties overcoming the perception in the bank, where employees tend to be liberal in their politics, that she was part of a coterie of conservative advisers around Mr. Wolfowitz.WASHINGTON — Six months after taking over as president of the World Bank, Robert B. Zoellick faced new turmoil on Wednesday over a campaign against corruption in bank lending, with the resignation of the chief of the bank's antifraud unit.Bank officials said that despite Mr. Zoellick's efforts to heal the wounds left from the stormy tenure of his predecessor, Paul D. Wolfowitz, the resignation of Suzanne Rich Folsom, Mr. Wolfowitz's top deputy in his anticorruption campaign, was stirring new bitterness. They said that several of Ms. Folsom's aides were also resigning.Mr. Wolfowitz, who had made the battle against corruption a priority, was ousted as bank president last year after the disclosure that he had arranged a pay increase and promotion for his companion, a bank employee, in 2005."There is just a lot of bad blood," said a bank official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters. He added that many in the bank remained "allergic" to efforts to prosecute cases of fraud. Another official said that ties between Ms. Folsom and the bank had been on a "downward spiral" in recent months.Associates of Ms. Folsom said she had decided to leave her job because she had accomplished the goal of making the battle against corruption a major priority, but realized that opposition to her work by others had made it difficult for her to go on.News of her departure stirred mixed reactions within the bank, where many welcomed her decision, saying she had been selective in her prosecutions or overly aggressive, while others said she had done much to combat complacency.Relations between Mr. Zoellick and Ms. Folsom, which began as positive, were described by many inside the bank as increasingly frayed in recent weeks, especially after editorials in The Wall Street Journal cited internal investigations and suggested that Ms. Folsom was being undercut and driven out.A spokesman for Mr. Zoellick, Marwan Muasher, a senior vice president for external affairs, said that Ms. Folsom had not been pushed out and that Mr. Zoellick had been entirely supportive."He did not force her out in any way, shape or form," Mr. Muasher said of Mr. Zoellick, adding that when Ms. Folsom told Mr. Zoellick last year that she wanted to leave for a job in private business, he offered her a different job at the bank and then asked her to stay until the bank completed its investigation of corruption in India.The report on India was released Friday, and it found extensive corruption in several Indian lending programs. The report was filled with pictures of shoddy construction work at hospitals, clinics and other facilities that had been certified as adequate. It also included pledges by India to work with the bank on improving its procedures, but some officials in the bank said these were similar to ones made and not kept in the past.Ms. Folsom's resignation was announced Wednesday morning in a posting in the bank's internal Web site, without a statement praising her from Mr. Zoellick.Mr. Zoellick's office initially said he would make no comment about her departure so as not to interject himself into the matter, but later in the afternoon an aide issued a statement from him saying: "Suzanne has done a tremendous amount to push the anticorruption agenda forward, and I'm grateful for her service."Mr. Zoellick's aides say that like Mr. Wolfowitz, he believes corruption is a high priority but that he intends to pursue the issue in a less divisive or confrontational way than had been the case in the past.Corruption is widely described as a problem in the bank's $30 billion annual lending programs for poor countries, but the extent is in dispute. Last September, an outside panel led by Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, found weak management, distrust and internal resistance to combating fraud at the bank.Mr. Zoellick, according to his aides, has sought to carry out broad changes in the way Ms. Folsom's unit interacts with other bank officials, and to install procedures on competitive bidding, inspections and disclosure that would prevent corruption instead of just prosecuting cases after the fact."It's all very well to talk about corruption and to have these reports," said Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a managing director at the bank and former finance minister of Nigeria, who negotiated the India agreement. "Bob Zoellick is geared toward implementation, and to how we sustain this and embed it in a country."Ms. Okonjo-Iweala negotiated the arrangement with India to set up ways to rid programs of fraud. By contrast, Mr. Wolfowitz abruptly suspended aid to India after accusations of fraud in 2005, and that suspension angered board members and helped pave the way for his downfall, many bank officials say.Mr. Volcker praised Ms. Folsom and the integrity unit she headed last year, when he issued his report, but he also recommended changes in the way the unit functioned.Several bank officials said, however,  that Mr. Volcker privately recommended to Ms. Folsom that since her work had been largely vindicated, she should consider resigning as a way of easing the toxic atmosphere left behind by Mr. Wolfowitz and by the fights between her department and others at the bank.Instead, Ms. Folsom stayed on, though associates say she had been pursuing possibilities of working outside the bank. Ms. Folsom declined to comment.Mr. Zoellick appointed an acting director to run the integrity unit and his office said he would conduct a thorough search for a successor. One reason that Ms. Folsom incurred the anger of bank staff was that she had served as an adviser to Mr. Wolfowitz before he appointed her over others recommended by a search committee.Ms. Folsom, a onetime activist in Republican Party politics, had been a partner in a law firm specializing in ethics issues. Defenders and critics said that she had considerable difficulties overcoming the perception in the bank, where employees tend to be liberal in their politics, that she was part of a coterie of conservative advisers around Mr. Wolfowitz.WASHINGTON — In trying to assemble a bipartisan package to jolt the slumping economy, the White House and Congress have turned to familiar tools that experts say have worked in the past. But there is also a lively debate among economists about which measures will best accomplish the goal.The favorite template for addressing recession fears is a set of tax measures and spending initiatives passed in 2001 and 2002, including   a personal income tax rebate  in the summer of 2001 that amounted to $300 to $600 per household and a tax incentive the following year aimed at encouraging businesses to invest in new plants and equipment.President Bush highlighted both those basic approaches on Friday in setting out his principles for a deal with Congress to address the current downturn. Democrats are also likely to seek increased spending for programs like unemployment insurance or to funnel more money to states, an approach that Mr. Bush signaled he would oppose."The research I've seen indicates that the programs in 2001 clearly worked," Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said in an interview, referring to the tax measures. "They worked quickly, and people spent the money they got. The thing we should be looking at now is how to make them even more effective."The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office reported this week that each of the three elements of the 2001-2 stimulus  —  personal tax rebates, incentives for business investment and government spending programs  —  played a role in lifting  the economy.Mr. Paulson said he and his colleagues first began examining the 2001 experience before Christmas, drawing lessons for a contingency proposal if the economy continued to decelerate. The  formulation of the principles put forward by Mr. Bush on Friday began two weeks ago.Personal tax rebates are intended to put cash in the hands of consumers, in the hope that they will spend it immediately, giving a lift  to stores, service providers  and manufacturers of consumer goods, rather than saving it or using it to pay down debt.Incentives for business investment are intended to prompt companies to accelerate plans to buy new equipment, increasing demand for that type of product and helping to forestall employment losses or spur new hiring."We looked at a lot of data and got a lot of anecdotal evidence," Mr. Paulson said. "The discussions I had with Congress made us feel better about these measures. People on the Hill saw a need, and they are willing to put aside their pet projects and major strategic priorities to get it passed."All indications are that the likely package to be voted on will be a hodgepodge, but experts say that is not bad. Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified Thursday before the House Budget Committee that because there was disagreement among specialists on what worked, it might be best to adopt a mixture."A program that combined a number of elements might in some sense address the problem from a number of different angles and be more effective than one that was only a single element," he said.Stimulus packages of the less recent past are often cited as examples of how not to make policy. Economists say that in the recession of the mid-1970s, spending and tax cut measures were enacted too slowly, having an effect only after the economy had already picked up. In 1992 and 1993, partisan squabbling derailed plans for a stimulus package as the recession came and went.The measures seven years ago sent a different lesson, according to John B. Taylor, a professor of economics at Stanford and a former Treasury official under Mr. Bush. "People look back at 2001 and are more positive about this kind of approach," he added.There continues to be a debate among economists about how best to give a kick to the economy. The Congressional Budget Office, for example,  said that temporary one-time-only changes in tax policy may have only a moderate effect relative to permanent changes like lower income tax rates.Consumption jumped after the  tax rebate in 2001, it said, but researchers cannot be sure that  was because of the tax rebate or the passage of the long-term tax cuts at the same time.Joel Slemrod, professor of business economics at the University of Michigan, said his study of the 2001 tax rebates showed only 22 percent of taxpayers he surveyed spent most of their rebates. The data suggests that the effect of such rebates, he said, "wouldn't be as big as one might hope."Many economists say that a drawback to Mr. Bush's proposals, as outlined so far, is that they might not put cash in the hands of people most likely to spend it: those at the lower end of the income spectrum. Mr. Bush signaled that he would limit rebates to people who pay federal income taxes, and many low- and middle-income people pay little or no federal income tax, because they benefit from various deductions and credits.Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget Policy and Priorities, is one of many liberal economists urging that the tax rebate be in the form of a credit for children, or some form of credit for Social Security taxes workers pay.Without such improvements, he said, Mr. Bush's plan "would save fewer jobs and do less to shore up a weak economy than it should." He asserted that the business tax incentives of 2001 and 2002 also had only a modest effect on the economy.Matthew Shapiro, another economist at the University of Michigan, reached a similar conclusion about the proposed incentives for business  —  namely accelerated depreciation or what is called a bonus depreciation on capital spending. These are aimed at encouraging investment by allowing businesses to write off the costs faster.But Mr. Shapiro estimated that the tax incentives for business investment in the past did not work broadly throughout the business sector. He said the "vast majority of investment did not benefit much" from such a measure.Mr. Paulson, in the interview, acknowledged that if businesses were losing money, a tax incentive for investment would not work as well. But he said that in the current economy, "businesses are operating at fuller levels so this program would be more effective than in the past."  After the last downturn in 2001, business investment slumped for several years after Congress passed tax incentives , in part because many companies had vast amounts of extra production capacity.Although Democrats have begun to embrace the idea of tax relief for families and businesses, they also insist that the government should provide aid to states  to forestall budget cutbacks, extend unemployment benefits and possibly channel money to individuals through programs like food stamps.Republicans are reluctant to embark on that kind of spending, in part because they do not want federal funds to pay for state government programs over which Washington has no control. But all sides agree that if speed is of the essence, so is the likelihood of compromise.Economists say that one lesson from past efforts is that there is no point in doing something too late. This time, however, a consensus is emerging that Congress can pass something as early as March and that money can get into the hands of consumers, businesses and states shortly thereafter.The outlook darkened for Merrill Lynch on Thursday as news of a huge quarterly loss sent the company's stock plummeting.Merrill, the nation's largest brokerage firm, posted a $9.8 billion fourth-quarter loss, almost matching the deficit reported for the period by Citigroup, a company three times Merrill's size. The loss at Merrill, which exceeded analysts' forecasts, reflected $16.7 billion of write-downs on mortgage-related investments and leveraged loans.Merrill's results helped touch off a steep decline in the stock market and raised concern that the firm might face further losses in the months ahead.John A. Thain, who took over as chief executive in December, called the loss "unacceptable" but said the company had enough capital after raising $12.8 billion from foreign and domestic investors this week."We're very confident that we have the capital base now that we need to go forward in 2008," Mr. Thain said.Investors did not share his confidence. Merrill's stock fell more than 10 percent, to $49.45 a share, as the broader market took its biggest tumble since November.Analysts said they were concerned that Merrill was still exposed to the various areas of the troubled mortgage market. They also said Merrill's weakened finances and the foreboding economic environment would hamper many parts of the firm's business."There is still a lot of uncertainty ahead for Merrill," said Brad Hintz, a securities analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. "I suspect John Thain has no choice but to constrain the trading business pretty tightly."Mr. Thain highlighted the positive elements of Merrill's results, including record results in equity capital markets, investment banking and global wealth management. "The vast majority of our businesses did really, really well," he said in an interview.But Mr. Thain expressed some dismay at the risks Merrill took before he joined the firm. "They shouldn't be taking risks that wipe out the earnings of the entire firm," he said, referring to the fixed-income trading desk, many of whose executives have been fired.Investors seemed to agree.  "As painful as it is, we are glad that Merrill acted as aggressively as it did on both the capital raising and the write-downs," said William Tanona, an analyst at Goldman Sachs. "Nonetheless, it is disheartening to know that the firm wiped out about four years of book value growth in one quarter." In 2002-6, Merrill Lynch earned $22.6 billion in profits.Mr. Thain has moved quickly to build the firm's liquidity and capital. He has also flattened the firm's reporting structure to "reduce the siloing that has taken place at Merrill Lynch over the last few years," he said.Picking up the pieces is nothing new for Mr. Thain. In his previous job as chief of the New York Stock Exchange, now NYSE Euronext, Mr. Thain had to deal with the fallout over the ouster of the former chairman, Richard A. Grasso, whose $139.5 million pay package had caused a furor at the nonprofit institution. Mr. Thain then fundamentally changed the way the exchange functioned, taking it public, accelerating automation and ultimately merging the exchange with a giant European board.He arrived at Merrill amid a storm of controversy surrounding E. Stanley O'Neal, the polarizing former chief executive. Mr. O'Neal had pushed Merrill into more aggressive areas — a strategy that was successful until the subprime market collapsed.Mr. Thain has since moved quickly to improve risk management and unify executives. He hired Nelson Chai as the new chief financial officer. And after releasing earnings on Thursday, the firm announced the appointment of Noel B. Donohoe to lead the risk department with Edmond N. Moriarty. Mr. Thain instituted a weekly risk meeting at which the business heads would report to him. "What's important is that the risk heads report directly to me and that the meeting is with the business leaders and it's a discussion about the risk across the firm," he said.Merrill losses included a $9.9 billion write-down on collateralized debt obligations, a $1.6 billion write-down on subprime mortgages and a $3.1 billion write-down on exposure to bond insurers, which have come under tremendous pressure for insuring securities that are defaulting a record rates. Other areas for write-downs include $900 million in Alt-A and residential mortgages outside the United States and $230 million related to the company's $18 billion commercial real estate portfolio. Mr. Thain said he did not expect to recover any money on C.D.O.'s.By way of comparison, Citigroup wrote down $23.2 billion in mortgage-related losses and provisions for future bad loans while also reporting a $9.83 billion fourth-quarter loss. The bank raised $19.1 billion from sovereign wealth funds and domestic investors.While investors shed Merrill stock on Thursday, Mr. Thain expressed confidence in the prospects for his firm and the broader economy. He said that although the economy is likely to slow, it is unlikely to sink into a recession. He outlined growth initiatives, including expanding the global wealth management business abroad and expanding all the company's businesses in the Pacific Rim, especially in China. He also predicted the firm could get back to a return on equity — a measure of profitability — of 20 percent.Not all analysts agreed with that projection. "I'm skeptical," said Mr. Hintz of Sanford Bernstein."The good thing was John Thain and company said everything I wanted them to say. He was on top of the situation and taking the right steps," said Jeffrey Harte, an analyst at Sandler O'Neill & Partners. "The bad news is they have a big job in front of them," he said, adding that the firm still had sizable exposures to some of the most toxic assets in the marketplace.For his part, Mr. Thain appears to enjoy the job. He praised the company's  culture, and he was quick with an answer as to how that culture differed from that of Goldman Sachs, where he built his career. "The biggest single difference is the focus on clients," he said. "Merrill does truly put clients first."
