IT has been 10 years since consultants at McKinsey & Company published a  study,  "The War for Talent," that warned of an imminent executive shortage. If anything, a different set of McKinsey consultants now say, the problem "has become worse."In a report in The McKinsey Quarterly, the  consultants, Matthew Guthridge, Asmus B. Komm and Emily Lawson, point out that companies face a "demographic landscape dominated by the looming retirement of baby boomers in the developed world and by a dearth of young people entering the work force." At the same time, they say,  "question marks remain over the appropriateness of the talent in many emerging markets."Managers promote the idea that their employees are their biggest source of competitive advantage, the consultants write. Yet most are as unprepared now as they were a decade ago for recruiting and retaining capable workers.Managers surveyed by the firm blamed everything from short-term financial pressures —  which keep them from investing in talent development — to less-than-capable human resource departments for the persistence of the problem.OUT OF DATE Could it be that  companies are so bad at developing people because  their approaches are simply outdated? Peter Cappelli, a professor at the Wharton School, thinks so. "Every management development practice that seems novel today was commonplace" in the 1950s, he writes in The Harvard Business Review, everything from "executive coaching to 360-degree feedback to job rotation to high potential programs."Given that the old ways are not working well, it is time for a new approach, he contends, and he suggests four steps for companies and managers.First, "a deep bench of talent is expensive," so undershoot what will be needed, and plan to hire from the outside.Second, recognize that "uncertainty in demand" for talent is a given, and respond by training smaller classes of  managers more often and creating a companywide pool of talent, instead of developing depth in individual departments.Third, increase the return on the training investment by persuading  employees to work voluntarily on stretch assignments, the rationale being that they will gain skills that will make them more valuable in the future.Finally, give employees a greater say in their career paths so that they do not feel frustrated by what the company has mapped out for them and  be tempted to leave.INTERVIEW TICS "Everyone knows about interview body language: lean slightly forward to look interested; don't cross your arms or you'll look defensive," Working Mother notes. But what about  personal quirks?Diane Gottsman, a corporate etiquette expert, and Katy Piotrowski, founder of JobWorks, a career counseling company, offered these suggestions:¶When you start to babble, ask, "Are there any questions that I can answer for you?" Or, "Can you tell me about your expectations for this position?" Then, keep your own comments short.¶For fidgeters,  cross one foot behind the other.¶Those who use their hands a lot when they  talk should  force themselves  to keep them on their  legs.¶And those who say "um" often, should  "go for silence instead," they say. "A pause shows that you're thoughtful."FINAL TAKE Here's something to ponder  as you search for that pair of green socks:"Last year, Americans spent $3.8 billion on the feast day of the patron saint of engineers, excluded people, the snake-bitten, and, of course, Ireland," Fast Company reports. On average, those celebrating St. Patrick's Day each spent   $35 on things like green beer, leprechaun hats and nine million cards, making the day "the eighth-largest card-giving occasion," just behind Thanksgiving.Erin Go Bragh! PAUL B. BROWN"Observers are often amazed when executives with impressive track records are mysteriously transformed into corrupt and tyrannical monsters once they become C.E.O.s,"  Terry Leap, a management professor at Clemson University, writes in Sloan Management Review.But they should not be, he says,  pointing out that these executives "had serious character flaws that were either hidden or ignored for years."Mr. Leap lists a dozen warning signs that boards should be looking for, and they include:An obsession with acquiring prestige, power and wealth."  This, coupled with an inability to delay gratification, suggests that a chief executive may  put his interests ahead of the company's.A reputation for shameless self-promotion and other self-aggrandizing behaviors."A tendency to create "grandiose strategies" without including a detailed plan for how they will be carried out.The ability to compartmentalize and rationalize to an amazing degree. This trait, Mr. Leap writes, is shared by dysfunctional people, among them bad chief executives and criminals. Clearly, even the best chief executives occasionally exhibit some of these traits. "Potentially bad C.E.O.s, however, usually possess several of these characteristics and they exhibit them repeatedly," he writes.Mr. Leap says his  message to corporate boards is simple: in the late stages of the selection process, spare no expense in digging deeply into a  finalist's background.BAD BOARDS It can be  frustrating for shareholders when the board fires an  underperforming chief executive only to let the successor go a short time later for failing to meet expectations.Looking at this, "you have to conclude that corporate succession as it is currently practiced is a disaster," argues Joseph L. Bower, a Harvard Business School professor.Writing in Directors & Boards, Mr. Bower says  there are three situations that cause, as the magazine puts it, "self-destructive behavior in leader selection, even for well-managed companies."Problem No. 1.  The incumbent is so powerful he stunts the growth of all those who serve under him. Mr. Bower's remedy is to  have potential successors run divisions away from headquarters — perhaps overseas — where they can prove their worth without being overshadowed by the boss.Problem No. 2. The firm is growing so rapidly that it is difficult for anyone but the incumbent chief executive to have a handle on what is going on. Should he stumble, there is no one in the wings who has the full picture. The solution, argues Mr. Bower, is to give senior staff as many lateral promotions as possible so they can gain experience across the organization.Problem  No. 3.  The business faces a situation requiring a change in its fundamentals to survive. The best way to prepare, he contends, is to make sure that there are diverse skills among the senior staff.Boards that  do not adopt his prescriptions, he writes, "get to recruit an outsider and pray hard."TAKE A CHANCE New managers often have this quandary: Do you hire the candidate you know is competent, but ordinary, or someone who  has the potential to  be great, but has an equal chance of being awful?The advice, from the "Cubicle Coach" at Marie Claire, is to go with the wild card."You have a 66.7 percent chance of a positive result," the coach writes. "Yes, the unknown could flop, but she could also a) do as well as the known, or b) actually be a star.FINAL TAKE In honor of this month's Women's History Month, Pink magazine salutes the oldest woman working, according to Experience Works, which provides training and employment for low-income older people.She is Blanche Mahaney, an assistant manager for Grand Vista Inc., which operates senior living apartments in Arizona.Ms. Mahaney is 95.   PAUL B. BROWN Howard M. Metzenbaum, who for nearly two decades as a Democratic senator from Ohio fought conservatives and big business with such effectiveness and ferocity that he became known as "the last angry liberal," died Wednesday at his home in Aventura, Fla. He was 90.His daughter Shelley H. Metzenbaum confirmed the death.Mr. Metzenbaum came from poverty to accumulate a fortune in the parking-lot business, but he made a political career of battling for the poor and the middle class. His style was stubborn, bombastic and often self-righteous — so grating that more than one colleague compared it to fingernails scraping across a blackboard.But Mr. Metzenbaum's success in passing social legislation on issues like workers rights  and adoption policy, in blocking pork-barrel excess and tax loopholes, and in inventing new ways to use the filibuster — long the tool of Southern segregationists — were unquestioned."I think that even the people who don't agree with his causes would concede he performs a very important and useful function," Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, said in an interview with The New York Times in 1984.John Glenn, a Democrat who had an often-contentious relationship with Mr. Metzenbaum when both were senators from Ohio, said in an interview with The Columbus Dispatch in 1994: "I've worked with Howard Metzenbaum, and I've worked against Howard Metzenbaum. And it's a whole lot more pleasant to work with him."Mr. Metzenbaum was a senator for 19 years,  retiring in 1995 to become chairman of the Consumer Federation of America. In winning re-election in his last race, in 1988, he scored a wider margin of victory  in traditionally Republican Ohio than that of Vice President George Bush, who  was the Republican presidential nominee that year.Mr. Metzenbaum,  nicknamed Headline Howard for his love of publicity,  denounced  big oil companies, the insurance industry, savings and loans and the National Rifle Association, among many targets. At the Senate Judiciary Committee's 1991 hearings on the nomination of Judge Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court, he  hammered Mr. Thomas relentlessly on accusations of sexual harassment. Finally, Judge Thomas responded, "God is my judge, not you, Mr. Metzenbaum."Howard Morton Metzenbaum, grandson of an immigrant from Hungary, was born on June 4, 1917, in Cleveland. His father, Charles, eked out a living selling the goods of bankrupt companies.Howard Metzenbaum ran track at his Cleveland high school and once raced against Jesse Owens, who left him in the dust. He sold magazines and delivered groceries as a teenager. Before he was old enough to drive, he owned a car, which he used to ferry patrons to a race track. He woke up one morning and found the car, a 1926 Essex, gone. His father had sold it to meet a mortgage payment.At Ohio State University, Mr. Metzenbaum ran a bike rental business, played his trombone for pay and sold chrysanthemums outside the football stadium. After graduating in 1939, he went to the university's law school, making money by drafting legislation for state lawmakers.After graduating from law school, he won election in 1942 to the Ohio House, where he served until 1947. He was a state senator from 1947 to 1951, when he retired from politics after losing in a bid to become Senate majority leader. He blamed anti-Semitism for the defeat.Mr. Metzenbaum had meanwhile started a business with a partner, Alva T. Bonda. They set up one of the first commercial parking lots to be built at an airport, in Cleveland, and quickly expanded nationwide. When the company was bought by ITT, Mr. Metzenbaum received $6 million. The partners also had successful investments in newspapers, banking and 17 Avis rental car franchises, the largest number under a single ownership.Mr. Metzenbaum once described himself as "born knowing how to make money."With financial independence, Mr. Metzenbaum managed two successful campaigns for the United States Senate by Stephen M. Young, a Democrat,  in 1958 and 1964. In 1970, Mr. Metzenbaum ran for the Senate himself. He faced Mr. Glenn, an astronaut and national hero, in the primary.At the campaign's start, Mr. Metzenbaum was known by 10 percent of Ohioans and Mr. Glenn by 95 percent. Mr. Glenn contended that his millionaire opponent was buying the election with huge expenditures for television advertising.Mr. Metzenbaum agreed that unequal television exposure was unfair but said Mr. Glenn had enjoyed a tax-supported "$3.5-billion-dollar TV spectacular when he orbited the Earth." Mr. Metzenbaum won a narrow victory over Mr. Glenn, but lost to Robert Taft Jr. in the general election.In 1973, President Richard M. Nixon named Senator William B. Saxbe, Republican of Ohio, as his new attorney general. Ohio's Democratic governor, John J. Gilligan, named Mr. Metzenbaum to the remaining year of Mr. Saxbe's term.As an appointed senator, Mr. Metzenbaum said he would be a "quiet voice" and voted the liberal line on issues like energy and gun control. In 1974, he and Mr. Glenn were again pitted against each other in the Democratic primary.In the campaign, Mr. Metzenbaum said Mr. Glenn had never met a payroll, apparently meaning to suggest that Mr. Glenn had no business experience. But many understood Mr. Metzenbaum to mean that Mr. Glenn had never held a real job.Mr. Glenn, a career marine, replied of the sacrifices members of the armed service make, referring poignantly to the graves of many of them at Arlington National Cemetery. Mr. Glenn won the primary and the election.In 1976, Mr. Metzenbaum beat Mr. Taft and became an elected senator. He threw himself into fighting against the deregulation of gas and oil prices, called for tighter regulation of the insurance industry and fought for national health insurance.Mr. Metzenbaum and Mr. Glenn reconciled in 1984 when Mr. Metzenbaum helped Mr. Glenn's presidential campaign. In 1988, Mr. Glenn helped Mr. Metzenbaum's re-election effort, including recording a commercial rebuttal of Republican accusations that Mr. Metzenbaum was soft on child pornography.For all his public fierceness, Mr. Metzenbaum was known for personal touches like his huge bulletin board with photographs of friends and colleagues. Each year he would take each of his four daughters on a business trip.Besides his daughter Shelley, of Concord, Mass., his survivors include his wife, the former Shirley Turoff; three other daughters, Barbara J. Metzenbaum of Topanga, Calif.; Susan M. Hyatt of Atherton, Calif.,  and Amy B. Metzenbaum of Mill Valley, Calif.; and nine grandchildren.After the Democrats won a Senate majority in the 1986 election, Mr. Metzenbaum was glad to be more than "Senator No" to Republican initiatives. He had several  legislative victories, including a law requiring companies to give voters 60 days' notice of a plant shutdown.In the 1994 interview with The Columbus Dispatch, he said, "I've proven that one person who is resolute in his or her positions can make a difference in this body, and that you don't have to go along to get along."As New York's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer had broken up prostitution rings before, but this 2004 case took on a special urgency for him. Prosecuting an international sex tourism business based in Queens, he listened to the entreaties of women's advocates long frustrated by state laws that fell short of dealing with a sex trade expanding rapidly across borders.And with his typical zeal, he embraced their push for new legislation, including a novel idea at its heart: Go after the men who seek out prostitutes.It was a question of supply and demand, they all agreed. And one effective way to suppress the demand was to raise the penalties for patronizing a prostitute. In his first months as governor last year, Mr. Spitzer signed the bill into law.Now the human rights groups, which credit him with what they call the toughest and most comprehensive anti-sex-trade law in the nation, are in shock. Mr.  Spitzer stands accused of being one of the very men his law was designed to catch and punish."It leaves those of us who worked with his office absolutely feeling betrayed," said Dorchen Leidholdt, director of Sanctuary for Families Legal Services, one of the leaders of the coalition that drafted the legislation.The law, which went into effect Nov. 1, mainly deals with redefining and prosecuting forms of human trafficking, which Governor Spitzer called "modern-day slavery." It offers help to the women who are victims of the practice, rather than treating them as participants in crime.But it also lays the groundwork for a more aggressive crackdown on demand, by increasing the penalty for patronizing a prostitute, a misdemeanor, to up to a year in jail, from a maximum of three months.That was a key shift in approach for New York State, and one the governor and his top aides seemed to support wholeheartedly, said Ken Franzblau, now director of the law's implementation at the State Division of Criminal Justice Services. Generally, the law and its enforcers focus on pimps and prostitutes, and treat customers as an afterthought."If you eliminate the demand, you eliminate the problem," said Mr. Franzblau, who worked for years with Equality Now, a women's advocacy and human rights group that had long urged prosecution of the Queens sex tourism business operating as Big Apple Oriental Tours."In fact, the demand is really the lower-hanging fruit," he added. "The johns are really afraid of being caught. The idea is that if we get some real penalties, and get D.A.'s to insist on them, we really could create a deterrent to this."For Equality Now, and a core of high-profile supporters that included Gloria Steinem and Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, the Big Apple Oriental Tours case was a frustrated seven-year campaign for prosecution that became a turning point. Even after Mr. Franzblau posed as a would-be customer, gathering what was described as "smoking-gun evidence," the Queens district attorney, Richard A. Brown, declined to prosecute.Mr. Brown maintained that under state law he had no legal jurisdiction over acts of prostitution that took place in Thailand and in the Philippines, even if those acts were being promoted by a travel business operated in New York.Mr. Spitzer disagreed. Newly re-elected as attorney general, he began an investigation, slapped the business with a civil action that shut down its Web site, and in February 2004, won a grand jury indictment of the two operators in Dutchess County, where they lived. He proclaimed it the first criminal charge against a sex tourism business based in the United States.But the case stalled, and despite another indictment in 2005, it has yet to reach trial.Efforts to clarify and overhaul New York's penal code on prostitution and human trafficking seemed stuck in legislative gridlock."We had tremendous difficulty trying to get this law passed, year after year," said Taina Bien-Aimé, executive director of Equality Now. "Our only hope was for Eliot Spitzer to be elected governor.""He understood," she added. "He got it, unlike hundreds of other politicians and law enforcement officials that we talked to."She and Ms. Leidholdt said the governor put his muscle behind the legislation, detailing top aides to work with sponsors of piecemeal bills that had languished, to consult with a coalition of human rights and women's groups, and to lobby labor unions whose support was won through provisions addressing the trafficking and exploitation of workers.Peter Pope, one of Mr. Spitzer's point people on the bill, declined to comment through the governor's press secretary, Errol Cockfield.The law explicitly made sex tourism and its promotion a crime, resolving the jurisdictional debate that had mired the Big Apple prosecution for so long. But more important, Ms. Bien-Aimé said, it demonstrated a comprehensive approach to the larger issues."One of the goals of the human trafficking law was the acknowledgment that demand is a critical factor in sex trafficking," she said. "And as a result of that, it increased the penalties for patronizing a prostitute across the board, whether or not the person is trafficked."Too often, Ms. Bien-Aimé maintained, the public imagines a huge divide between the kind of glamorous call girl depicted in a movie like "Pretty Woman," and the lurid, violent world of trafficked women in a film like "Eastern Promises." But they are all part of a commercial sex industry that buys women's bodies, she said, citing studies that put the average age of entry into prostitution in the United States at 14."There's no sliding scale in the exploitation of women," she said. "Either you exploit a woman in the commercial sex trade or you don't."Because Mr. Spitzer seemed to agree, she said, "he was our hero."ELIZABETH W. EASTON was asked at a Guggenheim Museum symposium in 2005  why there were so few ways    for curators to advance. Specifically, why weren't more curators becoming directors?Ms. Easton, who was  the chairwoman of European painting and sculpture at the Brooklyn Museum of Art at the time and the president of the Association of Art Museum Curators, took the issue to heart. "I began asking questions about the field and my profession that were larger than my immediate circumstances," she said. "Out of that came a realization that there was a need for a program to help curators embrace leadership positions."Leaving the Brooklyn Museum in 2006, Ms. Easton started  the Center for Curatorial Leadership, a fellowship program meant  to provide American curators with the management skills, fund-raising tips and administrative tools to become the next generation of museum directors. In January it began training 10 curators, drawn from 51 applicants,  in the finer points of running cultural institutions. Among them were Gary Tinterow, the head curator of 19th-century, Modern and contemporary art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; Colin B. Bailey, chief curator at the Frick Collection; and Elizabeth N. Armstrong, chief curator at the Orange County Museum of Art in California.Curators have traditionally been recruited as museum directors — for years  they were pretty much the only candidates. But in recent times, as museums have come under pressure to increase attendance, expand their buildings and compete with one another for donors, their trustees and boards have preferred  to hire leaders with management or business acumen rather than art training.Now curators are fighting back, eager to avoid seeing more  businesspeople taking coveted directors' posts. "The principal job of a museum director is to sustain and advance the central mission of the institution — exhibiting, acquiring and displaying art, as well as engaging with the community," Ms. Easton said. "Curators, with their deep art training and a background in museums, are the best people to carry that out."Agnes Gund, the art patron and president emeritus of the Museum of Modern Art, agrees. She is providing more than $500,000 a year to operate the leadership center. The money pays for  a six-month fellowship that includes four weeks of intense instruction, a residency and a mentorship. Many of the top museum directors in the nation have signed on as mentors or agreed to  provide residencies at their museums for the fellows."There was clearly a need for an organization to teach curators to embrace the growing administrative demands at museums," Ms. Gund said. "I have been on several selection committees for museum director jobs where the committee would not consider curators for the position because they had no management experience. They just didn't believe they had the skill set to do the job."The   center's arrival in the art world is  timely given the number of vacancies for museum directors, as an older generation begins to retire. In the last six months, there have been openings at more than 25 museums, including the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis and the Phillips Collection in Washington. Now the Metropolitan Museum of Art is also looking for a new director.The premise of the fellowship program is that it is easier to teach a passionate curator to be a leader than it is to  teach a professional manager to be passionate about the presentation and display of great art, the assumption being that you need both to be a good director. To this end, the inaugural fellows were also given an intensive two-week training seminar in nonart issues relating to management, leadership, business and accounting.Each morning,  the fellows attended lectures from faculty in the executive education program at Columbia Business School. The subjects included decision-making, endowment management and negotiation and conflict resolution. In the afternoon, the group was introduced to art museum trustees and directors, public officials and foundation heads, all of whom were supportive of the program and its aims. Glenn D. Lowry, director of the Museum of Modern Art, served as the host of a luncheon for the fellows, as did Kate D. Levin, commissioner of the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs. The group also  met an executive search firm specialist,  the kind of person who might be able to help  them get a job.The program included a rigorous assessment of each fellow's leadership style. Known as a "360," it involved soliciting detailed reports on each person's strengths and weaknesses from those who work with them.  "Its basic assumption is that you can't lead an organization unless you have an accurate assumption of how you are perceived by the people around you," said Raymond D. Horton, a professor at Columbia Business School and the architect of the academic component of the program.He admitted that several fellows were taken aback by the process of being evaluated by their  colleagues and peers. "People were terrified when they were given the results," Professor Horton said, but eventually, "everyone thought it was the most fantastic thing." He added: "I mean, it's so useful. It can be a real insight into your strengths and weaknesses."Still, many fellows said they were impressed with the program over all. "It was a transformative two weeks," Mr. Tinterow said. "Coming in, I thought I would acquire some business school terminology. I have indeed acquired some new terminology, but I also have an appreciation that fundamentals of business management are not inconsistent with the purpose of a museum and in many ways can help further its mission."Others said the program would have an immediate impact  on them and the museums they worked for. "What I have learned I can immediately put into effect," said another fellow, Silvia Karman Cubiñá, a curator at the Moore Space in Miami, a nonprofit with  three employees and an annual budget of $350,000. "Things like how you professionalize your operation, or how you implement a system of responsibilities and delegation of duties."Mr. Bailey will do a weeklong residency with Henri Loyrette, president and director of the Louvre. He said he felt that the overall program gave fellows "a better opportunity to be part of the pool of candidates for future directors' jobs.""There still has to be that magical fit between the candidate and the board that does the hiring," Mr. Bailey said. "Here, at least, we've got good training to help find that fit."
