DO  human resource executives know their employees?When the professionals were asked to list the three things employees would say were the most important to them in deciding whether to stay with a company, the executives missed on all three, reports Workspan,  a magazine that  focuses on attracting, retaining and motivating employees.Employees said benefits were most important. Compensation was second and "growth and earning potential" third.The human resource executives  guessed that the top three would be "management climate, supervisor relationship and work environment." The  executives predicted that compensation would come in seventh place, exactly where employees put "supervisor relationship.""Perhaps the H.R. executives placed 'supervisor relationship' at No. 2 because they believe what is published and said so often: that people don't quit organizations or jobs, they quit their supervisors," wrote the magazine, published by WorldatWork, an international association of human resource professionals. "But the data from the employees indicates that axiom might not be so rock solid."The survey was conducted by Spherion, a recruiting and staffing company, and by the market research firm Harris Interactive.  The results indicate the continuing resonance of the line from "Cool Hand Luke":   "What we've got here is failure to communicate."E-MAIL 101 E-mail is no longer a cutting-edge tool. But  it is clear that some people still do not know how to use it effectively.Writing in Black Enterprise, Tennille M. Robinson offers the following reminders:¶E-mail is today's version of a business letter or interoffice memo; think accordingly. Make it look professional.¶Think short. "General guidelines state that you write one screen (25 lines) and stick with one subject."¶Read it out loud for tone. "If it sounds harsh to you, it probably is."E-MAIL 102 "For most people afflicted with e-mail overload, the problem isn't spam or unwanted newsletters," Inc. writes. "The real problem lies with all those e-mails crying out for responses."One simple solution is to place all those requests on your calendar or to-do list.That move accomplishes two things: It keeps the e-mail from getting lost in the avalanche of messages you receive, and it can make you feel more in control. You don't have to make the decision instantly; you can handle it when it is more convenient.By the way, if you are one of those people who complain about being unable to manage all the e-mail you receive, Inc.  says  that mastering e-mail "is a subset of managing information."  If you can't do that, it adds, "your problems run much deeper than your in-box."UNDO! UNDO! Writing in GQ, Cecil Donahue offers this useful advice to e-mail users: "Never send anything you wouldn't be comfortable hearing read back to you in an entirely different context. Like your boss's office. Or a courtroom."He coined a word that describes that "sickening feeling you get immediately after having sent an ill-conceived e-mail: 'e-gret.' "To avoid e-grets, "I'll type my rants without having put any names in the address field. Nine times out of 10, I delete the e-mail after I have vented," he writes. "The other time, I'll send the e-mail to myself so I can read it over later — and maybe I'll end up editing out some of the bile and sending the message along."FINAL TAKE Some 48 percent of people surveyed said "something key" would be missing from their lives without the Web, Self magazine writes, reporting on a poll conducted by the ad agency JWT. "Only 18 percent believe that they'd be fine living a week without it." PAUL B. BROWN  Gordon B. Hinckley, the president and prophet of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who led Mormonism through a period of global expansion, died Sunday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 97.The church, which announced his death on its Web site, said a successor to Mr. Hinckley was not expected to be chosen until after his funeral.Mr. Hinckley spent 46 years in the church's top leadership ranks, 12 of those as its 15th president. He was the oldest president in the church's history.In a faith that is relatively young, founded in 1830, Mr. Hinckley's impact was formative. He traveled to 60 countries and dedicated 95 of the church's 124 temples, some on sites that he himself had surveyed and selected. Wherever he went, he drew large crowds of church members waving white handkerchiefs, a sign of affection that began in Chile and spread.With his buoyant personality and affinity for public relations, Mr. Hinckley made Mormonism more familiar to the public and more accepted in the Christian fold. He gave news conferences and was the first church president to sit for interviews on "60 Minutes" and "Larry King Live." When the Winter Olympics went to Salt Lake City in 2002, the church's home base, he guided the church outreach campaign.To emphasize its commonality with other churches, he changed the church's logo, making the words "Jesus Christ" in the church's name much larger than "Latter-day Saints." He arranged to make the church's huge library of genealogical records publicly available on the Internet."He's been the face of the church, not only for church members, but more than any other president, to the world at large," said Richard Lyman Bushman, professor of history emeritus at Columbia University, a member and scholar of the church. "He exposed himself to all these interviews and seemed to enjoy it. That has won the admiration of church members. We have been a little bit isolated and clannish, and it's wonderful to see our church presented to the world."During his tenure, Mr. Hinckley faced tough questions about whether the church had muzzled critical scholars and about the role of Mormons in the Mountain Meadows massacre in 1857, when a wagon train of emigrants crossing the Utah territory was attacked. Under Mr. Hinckley, a church magazine published an article about the event and a memorial was constructed at the massacre site.He would often disarm interrogators with peppery humor, once welcoming a reporter for The New Yorker magazine to his office with the greeting, "All writers should be put in a box and thrown in the sea."In President Hinckley's term, the church grew to count more than 12 million members worldwide — more than the largest Lutheran denomination. It is now believed to be the fourth-largest church in the United States. (But the Mormon church has acknowledged reports that a significant percentage of new converts, especially overseas, do not remain active members.)Mormon presidents serve in office until their death, but Mr. Hinckley stood out for his enduring vigor. When his wife of 67 years, Marjorie Pay Hinckley, died in 2004, he told Larry King: "The best thing you can do is just keep busy, keep working hard, so you're not dwelling on it all the time. Work is the best antidote for sorrow."President Bush awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2004.Gordon B. Hinckley was born on June 23, 1910, in Salt Lake City, a descendant of a governor of the Plymouth Colony. His grandfather joined the Mormons as a teenager in Nauvoo, Ill., where they had taken refuge in 1839 after being run out of Missouri. But five years later in Carthage, Ill., anti-Mormon mobs killed the church's founder, Joseph Smith, and chased his followers out of the state. Mr. Hinckley said his grandfather was among those who made the trek by covered wagon and handcart across the Great Plains to Utah.Mr. Hinckley returned 158 years later to Nauvoo as the 14th successor to Joseph Smith to dedicate the rebuilt temple, which had long ago been destroyed by a fire and tornado. "This is the greatest season in the history of the church," he said in a news conference, "and it will only get better."He grew up in Salt Lake City, where his father ran the LDS Business College and invested in real estate. His mother was a former English teacher who kept a large library at home. He graduated from the University of Utah with an interest in writing, intending to become a journalist. But at 23, he accepted the call from the church to become a missionary in England, where he preached from a portable stand in Hyde Park in London.After two years, Mr. Hinckley returned to Salt Lake City and informed headquarters that missionaries needed better materials to explain the church's teachings to prospective converts. He was soon assigned to direct the church's publicity efforts, which he did for the next 20 years. For seven years after that, he managed the church's missionary program.As the church was growing overseas in the 1950s, Mr. Hinckley came up with the idea of producing a film to be shown in temples as a part of the instructions in the ritual. The film, which teaches about salvation and redemption, was easily translated into many languages and is still part of temple ritual.In 1961, Mr. Hinckley was brought into the upper echelon of church leadership. For 20 years he served as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, the church's second-highest governing body. Then he ascended to the First Presidency, an office that consists of a church president and his two advisers. The presidents he served, Ezra Taft Benson and then Howard W. Hunter, were in failing health for much of the time. Mr. Hinckley had effectively been leading the church well before he was ordained as president on March 12, 1995.To Latter-day Saints, the church president is not merely a temporal figure but also an inspired prophet who interprets church teachings for the present day. In his first year in office, Mr. Hinckley issued a proclamation on the family. Besides reaffirming Mormon belief that families live on together after death, it condemned domestic abuse. It also said that gender was a characteristic determined even before birth, and that procreation was reserved only for a man and a woman as husband and wife.Under Mr. Hinckley, the church endorsed a constitutional amendment defining marriage as the union of a man and a woman and financed political campaigns to support legislation that would bar same-sex marriage in California and Hawaii.In his worldwide travels, Mr. Hinckley became attentive to the needs of church members in developing countries. He established a "Perpetual Education Fund" to pay for needy church members to attend college. And he designed a smaller version of a temple that could be built more quickly, for less money — giving many more church members access to the sacraments at the core of Mormon spirituality."That was hands-on, sitting at his desk drawing the floor plan," said Boyd K. Packer, the acting president of the Quorum of the Twelve. "They are being built everywhere in the world."In Salt Lake City, he oversaw the renovation of the historic Mormon Tabernacle, where the famed choir sings, as well as the construction of a new 21,000-seat assembly hall four times the size of the tabernacle to seat the faithful who attend the church's semiannual general conferences.Mr. Hinckley is survived by his children, Kathleen Barnes Walker, Virginia Pearce, Jane Dudley, Richard Hinckley and Clark Hinckley; 25 grandchildren and 38 great-grandchildren.Hospital administrators usually do not find themselves offering advice or encouragement to art museum curators. But in an elegant Upper East Side town house the other day, Harold E. Varmus, the Nobel laureate and president of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, told a group of prestigious curators something that made several gasp audibly."I would say that I spend less than 5 percent of my time on fund-raising," said Dr. Varmus, who added, almost in passing, that he had helped raise nearly $2 billion during his eight years at the hospital.The common language in this encounter was one of precious resources: time and, especially, money, as important in the museum world as it is in the health industry. And the money usually comes, Dr. Varmus reminded them, from a relatively small group of people familiar to everyone around the table. "My donors," he said, "are your donors."The 10 curators — several from New York, but others from around the country and one from London — had taken two weeks off from thinking about art to think instead about the nonart subjects that increasingly dominate the time of their bosses, the museum directors: attendance, donations, construction, endowments, media attention, governmental support, budgets and more budgets.They were the inaugural class of the Center for Curatorial Leadership, a fellowship program founded last year to address what many in the museum world see as a need for curators to become better business people. In part, the goal is that business people — or at least those with far more financial acumen than art training — do not end up running museums. And it is also to help the next generation of museum directors cope with the growing financial pressures on art institutions as they compete for visitors with one another and with the pop-culture industry.The center is run by Elizabeth W. Easton, former chairwoman of the European paintings and sculpture department at the Brooklyn Museum, and it relies partly on faculty members from the executive education program at Columbia Business School. It is supported by more than a half-million dollars a year from Agnes Gund, president emerita of the Museum of Modern Art, who said she hoped the program would "keep the people who are in charge focused on the most important thing about museums, which is the art part.""I've seen time and again when the selection committees just wouldn't consider curators because they hadn't been in directorship positions, and they didn't think they had the wherewithal to assume such jobs," said Ms. Gund, who serves on several prominent museum boards. "And I think curators just need the imprimatur of something extra to show that they can do this."The opening of the program seemed even more timely after this month's announcement of the retirement of Philippe de Montebello, director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, who has come to be cast by many curators as a kind of Platonic ideal of an art-above-all museum leader.In a 2001 speech Mr. de Montebello described his view of the debate like a general marshaling troops. "If we are to win the battle of the 'curator/director' over the 'administrator/director,' a profile with which increasingly boards of trustees are instinctively more comfortable, then it is essential to enlarge the pool of curators with the qualifications to be tomorrow's museum directors," he told the Association of Art Museum Curators.To do that, the fellows in the inaugural program — including Colin B. Bailey, chief curator at the Frick Collection; Eleanor Jones Harvey, chief curator at the Smithsonian American Art Museum; and Gary Tinterow, a longtime Met curator who is often mentioned as a potential successor to Mr. de Montebello — delved into subjects that rarely invade their art-historical domains.They learned about endowment management and conflict resolution. They heard from executive-search specialists, the kind who could someday help determine the fates of the curators in the room. And they listened to an expert in the booming business of museum marketing — a field many museum leaders view with suspicion — talk about focus groups, audience expectations and branding ("the B word," as the expert, Arthur Cohen, delicately described it)."If you don't manage your brand," Mr. Cohen warned, in terms heard more often these days in political campaigns, "the external world will, often inaccurately."If the discussions ever seemed abstruse in the way that business-world strategizing can, they were quickly brought back to earth by reminders of what is at  stake, especially for smaller institutions with intense pressure to increase attendance, but for major ones  too.The program included a story of a wealthy trustee at one large New York museum who advised the museum's director not to mount a particular exhibition that was in the planning stages — essentially questioning the director's intelligence."Now can you ever imagine one of your trustees telling you that you're an idiot?" one curator asked Dr. Varmus, the Sloan-Kettering president, during his presentation."No," Dr. Varmus  replied emphatically, to laughter around the table.Many curators said it was crucial not only for talented curators to rise to leadership positions but also for them to find ways for museums to compete in a more corporate world without becoming too much a part of it or of the pop-culture realm. (Museum exhibitions often cited as examples of crossing those lines came up again during the course, like the Brooklyn Museum's "Star Wars" memorabilia show in 2002 and a display from Ralph Lauren's car collection at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, in 2005.)"In the last 15 to 20 years museums have looked to the M.B.A., the outside world, to corporate heads, to give us direction in how to assess what we're doing as an institution," said Laurie Winters, a curator at the Milwaukee Art Museum and one of the fellows. "And I think all of us sitting at this table and in the museum world in general have had experiences where we're saying, 'O.K., that's not working.' "Mr. Tinterow, who as part of the program will serve a residency with Neil MacGregor, the director of the British Museum and another candidate often mentioned to succeed Mr. de Montebello, said that he felt that museum boards were once again beginning to value deep art experience over business acumen in their searches for leaders.But what that means in today's museum world, he and other curators added, is that candidates for the top jobs need not only the skills of an art historian, but also those of a chief executive, investment banker, motivational speaker, political infighter and veteran diplomat."I almost feel that a battle has been won," Mr. Tinterow said, "but now the proof is in the pudding."After almost a year of fielding bids, Live Nation has sold most of its North American theater business, including the Broadway Across America touring network, to Key Brand Entertainment, a company owned by a British producer and run by an American entertainment executive.The deal, completed on Wednesday, also includes eight theaters that Live Nation leased or managed in Minneapolis, Boston, Baltimore and Toronto, as well as  the Canadian arm of the touring business. The touring network includes agreements to market and produce shows at more than 40 theaters across North America. The sale price was $90.4 million.The sale does not include everything that Live Nation initially put on the table: its share of the Chicago market, for example, was sold to its partner, the Nederlander Organization, for $60 million in November.  But the purchase did not come with the more than $150 million price tag that was originally being batted around.Now comes the hard part for the buyers: John Gore, 45, a British producer who has put up several successful West End shows and invested in Andrew Lloyd Webber productions; and Thomas B. McGrath, 51, a former vice president of the Viacom Entertainment Group who is the founder of a financial firm that specializes in acquiring and investing in entertainment businesses. (Dancap Productions will manage the Canadian properties for Key Brand.)The road business in North America has been patchy in recent years and problematic for Live Nation's theatrical division in particular. Presenters involved with the network since long before it was acquired by Clear Channel in 2000  (it was spun off as its own company in 2005) have been pulling out recently, prompted in part by a feeling that the theatrical business was an afterthought for a company more focused on concerts."As long as that happens, you're likely to have disaffection with your partners," Mr. McGrath said in a phone interview.As for road business in general, Mr. McGrath said the main issue was a lack of saleable shows. Blockbusters like "Wicked" and "Mamma Mia!" have consistently reported high ticket sales, but midsize shows have not had much to brag about. That can be changed, Mr. Gore said, by more skillfully marketing the shows that were not necessarily big hits on Broadway.Mr. Gore said he also wanted to rejuvenate the division's producing arm so that the network would not be entirely dependent on other peoples' shows."It has just been shelf space, Wal-Mart," he said of Live Nation's recent programming. Key Brand is currently investing in more than 10 shows, either on Broadway or in development, he said. But he said he also wanted to produce shows from the ground up."Really we want to start workshop level," Mr. Gore said. Asked if the new shows would reflect those on his producing résumé, which includes stage versions of "Star Trek" and the mid-1960s British television show "Thunderbirds," Mr. Gore said "those are just things I've had fun with in the past. The dream is to find the next great American musical."Two articles on Wednesday, one on the front page and one in Business Day, about the reaction in Washington to market turmoil, misstated circumstances of a conversation on Monday between Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and President Bush. According to additional information provided by the White House, Mr. Paulson spoke several times on Monday with the White House chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten. When Mr. Bolten returned a call at 3:15 p.m., Mr. Bush joined the conversation, at which time Mr. Paulson briefed him on events in overseas stock markets. Mr. Paulson did not telephone the president directly at that point.
