To the Editor:Paul Krugman is right that dealing with the negative impact of trade on American workers requires universal health care and a wide variety of pro-worker policies ("Divided Over Trade," column, May 14). The reason we do not have such policies is of course the opposition of American business and its Republican allies.Yet for 20 years Democratic leaders from Bill Clinton to Charles B. Rangel have continued to collaborate with Republicans in passing new trade pacts. The predictable result is more off-shoring of jobs and stagnant wages.If Democratic leaders are serious about helping the working people who voted for them, they will stop approving any more such deals — starting with those now pending for Peru, Panama and Colombia — until enough Republicans agree to support policies that will allow a broader sharing of the benefits of international trade.  Jeff FauxWashington, May 14, 2007The writer is a distinguished fellow at the Economic Policy Institute.To the Editor:Paul Krugman is right that dealing with the negative impact of trade on American workers requires universal health care and a wide variety of pro-worker policies ("Divided Over Trade," column, May 14). The reason we do not have such policies is of course the opposition of American business and its Republican allies.Yet for 20 years Democratic leaders from Bill Clinton to Charles B. Rangel have continued to collaborate with Republicans in passing new trade pacts. The predictable result is more off-shoring of jobs and stagnant wages.If Democratic leaders are serious about helping the working people who voted for them, they will stop approving any more such deals — starting with those now pending for Peru, Panama and Colombia — until enough Republicans agree to support policies that will allow a broader sharing of the benefits of international trade.  Jeff FauxWashington, May 14, 2007The writer is a distinguished fellow at the Economic Policy Institute.AT 6-foot-7 and shod in size 16 two-tone cowboy boots, it's hard to picture anything halfway about Ray Benson, the guitarist and leader of the western swing band Asleep at the Wheel. But Mr. Benson admits that for all his success as a musician — nine Grammys' worth — he wasn't the all-around businessman he aimed to be."I have half the attributes," he said. "I need a detail person. I'm a big picture person." That may make the business-side overhaul Mr. Benson has accomplished even more impressive than his collection of awards. Mr. Benson had to overcome his business shortcomings to catapult his band into an unlikely growth phase 37 years after it was formed. The band has found a new audience, won new critical acclaim and reinvigorated its music sales, while profiting as never before.Mr. Benson credits the band's business manager, Peter Schwarz. Together, they are a  seeming study in opposites: Mr. Schwarz is a 5-foot-7 Harvard M.B.A. — albeit one who spent a decade playing bass in a Cajun band.Since striking a partnership in 2001, the Wheel, as its fans refer to it, has returned to its core mission as an ensemble band, embraced its niche appeal and, in a risky move, adapted its stage show into a theatrical play. "We are still pinching ourselves that we are in a growth stage," Mr. Schwarz said.The Wheel is hardly the only legacy act on tour. "I think there are a lot of bands that have viable careers that have been doing it as long" as the Wheel, said Owen Sloane, an entertainment lawyer in Marina Del Ray, Calif. "Especially with the Indian casinos opening." He added that performers like Poison, Kenny Rogers and Ozzy Osborne still have working careers, even if they do not sell many records.The Wheel's first success came in 1975, when its country song, "The Letter That Johnny Walker Read," reached the Top 10. The band regularly opened for performers like Tammy Wynette and Donna Fargo."We were opening big shows in big places," Mr. Benson said. "Famous people came to see us. Rolling Stone wrote about us. We thought that the gravy train would never end."While he didn't spend wads of cash on cars and houses, he did spend freely on the band. It grew to 12 pieces, but that did not fatten revenue. "I grossed $1 million and was in debt," Mr. Benson said. "Something wasn't right."Matters got worse in the '80s, when the band was long off the charts and paychecks shrank. "This was the low point in our career," he said. "Disco was happening. We were not." A 1986 comeback hit, "The House of Blue Lights," and a television movie with Dolly Parton put Mr. Benson in the black and the band in the public eye again. The momentum continued with a 1998 Grammy.During this time, Mr. Benson became more careful in his spending and, recognizing a sideline he had found in voiceover work, started more businesses.Against all advice, he built a studio in Austin, Tex. Using his networking talent, he traded endorsements for discounts on studio equipment. He also used his Rolodex to draw acts like Willie Nelson and Manhattan Transfer to record there."Ray knows everybody," said Terry Lickona, chairman of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, which awards the Grammys. "It amazes me how many people consider Ray not just someone they know but a good friend."Although he had warned Mr. Benson that the studio was a losing proposition, Mr. Lickona said, "In retrospect, it was a pretty smart business decision."Mr. Benson, who still hadn't completely mastered finance, commingled his personal income with that of the band, which became problematic in a 2001  divorce from his wife, who was also his business manager.That became the Wheel's major turning point. A search for a new manager led to Mr. Schwarz, son of Tracy Schwarz, a member of the influential Americana band the New Lost City Ramblers. The younger Mr. Schwarz became a musician and road manager with Steve Riley and the Mamou Playboys. But when his wife was earning an M.B.A., he found, "it shocked me that a traditional business education would address issues important to me in running a band." He left the Playboys and went to Harvard for a business degree of his own.Now Mr. Schwarz's responsibility is to apply "straight M.B.A. stuff" to Mr. Benson's creativity. "My job is to guide him in what ideas are going to stick," Mr. Schwarz said. "How big is the audience? Is there money in it? In the music business, there really isn't that rigor."The reasons this partnership works are complex. Partly, it's the age spread between Mr. Benson, who is 56, and Mr. Schwarz, 39."I view Ray as a mentor," Mr. Schwarz said. Mr. Benson said, "Peter is very conservative financially, which is his job, because I'm not."Owning a studio has cut production costs and allowed the Wheel to create specialty projects, Mr. Benson said. The goal was to beat the classic record industry system, in which the label pays for a band's recording, promotion and distribution, then deducts the expenses from the band's royalties until it is repaid, which in Mr. Benson's case was almost never. Worse, the record company owned all rights to the music.With his own studio, the goal was to create CDs that the band would own and that could turn a profit with far fewer sales."There are 100,000 to 150,000 people who are passionate fans that spend $20 to $100 a year on the Wheel," Mr. Schwarz said. "The Internet allows us to capture that."Mr. Benson also saw an opportunity in new distribution channels. In 2003, the Cracker Barrel store chain underwrote and distributed a Wheel CD, "Hang Up My Spurs." He also used the strategy with the H-E-B grocery chain to sell a Christmas album, "Santa Loves to Boogie," and a new release, "Reinventing the Wheel."The band's  recent innovation grew out of Mr. Benson's wish to mark the 100th birthday of the western swing pioneer Bob Wills."I got this idea to do a play and honor this guy whose horse we rode for 30 years," he said. Mr. Benson was supposed to meet Mr. Wills in the '70s, but Mr. Wills suffered a stroke, and the meeting never happened. The play, "A Ride With Bob," imagines Mr. Benson meeting Mr. Wills's ghost, with his life acted out in vignettes and song.Mr. Benson persuaded sponsors to underwrite the cost of mounting the play, raising more than $700,000 in grants from H-E-B, Buick, oil companies and others. All ticket sales go to the band.Beyond that, the play had another advantage. "We were reaching a completely new audience," Mr. Benson said — theatergoers who might never set foot in a beer joint, or even in a cowboy boot.Patricia Ann Mullins and James Richard Smith were married yesterday at their home in Madison, Wis. Tamara B. Packard, a Dane County supplemental court commissioner, officiated.The bride, 60, is a senior lecturer of statistics at the school of business at the University of Wisconsin.   She graduated from the University of Wisconsin, from which she also received a master's degree in speech pathology. She received a doctorate in experimental psychology from the University of Chicago.She is the daughter of Dorothy M. Mullins of Manitowoc, Wis., and the late Paul A. Mullins.The bridegroom, 62, is a professor of music at the University of Wisconsin, where he is the conductor of the University Symphony Orchestra and the Chamber Orchestra, and the music director and the conductor of the University Opera.  He is also the music director and a conductor of the Wisconsin Youth Symphony Orchestras in Madison.He graduated from Southern Methodist University and received a master's degree in clarinet performance from the Cleveland Institute of Music. He is the son of the late Meta Bodenheimer and the late James M. Smith, both of Dallas.The bridegroom's previous marriage ended in divorce, as did the bride's.On a  hot evening this week in the Museum of Modern Art's garden, Marie-Josée Kravis, the museum president, and her husband, Henry, played host to more than 900 guests who mingled near two giant Richard Serra sculptures. Her presence was cool and reserved, and her outfit of a shimmering sequin top and dark slacks struck a conservative tone amid the sun-fired skin and tummy-hugging gowns that the wives of other moguls favored.Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was there, as was Martin Scorsese — clad in tuxedos, as were most other men. The buyout executives Leon Black and Stephen A. Schwarzman huddled in a corner, and Bruce Wasserstein, the chairman of Lazard, chatted with Richard D. Parsons, the chief executive of Time Warner.Part society gala, part networking session for the city's business titans, it was the kind of event that Ms. Kravis, who is 57, has been working with verve and diligence since her days as a young economist in Canada, making her the toast of Ottawa, Montreal and now New York. With her smile sparkling, she was far removed from the pained testimony she gave this month as a prosecution witness in the trial of her friend Conrad Black, the former chief executive of Hollinger International, where she served as board member for eight years.Part of the Canadian establishment in the 1980s, they emerged together in New York business and social circles in the 1990s. Today, Ms. Kravis  remains a pillar of New York society, while Mr. Black, if convicted, faces a life prison term.With its mix of high society and big business, the MoMA event might have appealed to Mr. Black."The essence of social life," he said in an interview in 1989, "is to make your contacts as interesting as they can be. Many people are intellectually stimulating. Some are not, but they happen to be important. So there is some utility in my knowing them."Marie-Josée Kravis, who would not comment for this article, was indeed a person worth knowing  —  a charter member of the Canadian establishment, whose conservative politics and glamorous countenance gave her entree to numerous Canadian boardrooms throughout the 1980s. In 1994, her marriage to Mr. Kravis, the buyout executive, gave her an additional luster, and several months later she accepted an offer from Mr. Black to join the Hollinger Inc. board.Since his early days as a newspaperman in Montreal, Mr. Black has blended his business and social ambitions, packing his board with social and political dignitaries, and prosecutors say he charged to his company  part of a birthday party and household expenses for a Park Avenue apartment and made liberal personal use of the company's private plane. Prosecutors say Mr. Black and others took more than $60 million from his company, and engaged in fraud by using Hollinger's money to help finance such a grand lifestyle.In today's era of increased scrutiny, corporate spending on social and personal matters, a once blurred line, can now be questioned by directors, shareholders and in some cases, regulators and prosecutors.Such indulgences can also be tiresome, as Mr. Black himself seemed to suggest when he sent an e-mail message to an associate in 2001 expressing some exasperation at having to buy a $15,000 table at a Museum of Modern Art party in honor of Ms. Kravis."I suppose in accordance with our longstanding custom of supporting our directors that we're stuck with this," he wrote. "These New York charities are terribly rapacious."In fact, as evidenced by some long faces and slack jaws as the evening wore on at the MoMA party, getting ahead in society can be hard work."Go very light on the vices such as carrying on in society," counseled Satchel Paige, the baseball pitcher and aphorist. "The social ramble ain't restful." Now facing 100 years in prison, Mr. Black might well agree.Until recently, Ms. Kravis and Mr. Black pursued a similar path.With their taste for conservative politics, hunger for social advancement and ease in corporate boardrooms, Ms. Kravis and Mr. Black left their Canadian origins in the past.How sharply the symmetry of their respective ascents has diverged was displayed vividly this month in a Chicago courtroom.On the stand was Ms. Kravis, who at various times has served on the audit committee of four major corporate boards in addition to Hollinger. Watching her intently was Mr. Black.Subjected to a barrage of pointed questions by Mr. Black's lawyer, she admitted to missing some board meetings, to not being a financial expert as defined by new  Sarbanes-Oxley requirements for audit committee members, and most crucially, to not having read parts of documents that disclosed the noncompete payments made to Mr. Black. Other audit committee members who testified were Richard Burt and former Gov. James R. Thompson of Illinois.Legal analysts say that by admitting that she was shown papers that described the payments, she may have undercut the prosecution's case that he schemed to steal the money.But for Mr. Black, the sharpest cut of all may have come with the low regard she seemed to show for the 60th-birthday party he gave for his second wife, Barbara, in 2000. Held at La Grenouille, a restaurant that caters to tastemakers on the Upper East Side, it was a lavish bid by Mr. Black to cement his place in Manhattan society, and those invited included Oscar de la Renta, Dixon Boardman and Barbara Walters.Prosecutors contend that this was a social gathering, not a business one as Mr. Black contends. On the stand, Ms. Kravis agreed: "It was a birthday celebration," not a business event, she said. And had she attended the party?"Only the last 15 or 30 minutes," she replied flatly. "I had another obligation that evening."For a woman used to wielding her influence in the privacy of closed boardrooms and evening dinner parties, the Black trial was a rude blast of publicity. But it was not the first time she had been  thrust uncomfortably into the spotlight.In 1976, Ms. Kravis, then known as Marie-Josée Drouin, was a 27-year-old economist working at the Hudson Institute in Canada. According to The Globe and Mail, a Canadian newspaper, Ms. Drouin became embroiled in a controversy when she flew free of charge to a holiday in Mexico with Jean-Pierre Goyer, a cabinet minister in the government of Pierre Trudeau whom she had previously served as an executive assistant. Such  a privilege was supposed to be accorded only to family members. In offering an explanation, Mr. Goyer, who was living apart from his wife although not legally separated, said Ms. Drouin, who was single, was his common-law wife.B. Bruce-Briggs, the author of "Supergenius," an independently published biography of Herman Kahn, the founder of the Hudson Institute,  recalled that Ms. Kravis escaped the headlines by locking herself in her house in Ottawa for 72 hours."She was embarrassed," he recalled. "But she had a stiff upper lip and she adjusted her makeup and moved on."Her willingness to work long hours, an ability to communicate on television or in print in French and English and a well-honed glamorous side would make Ms. Kravis indispensable to a series of powerful men who would support her career over the coming decades. They included Mr. Kahn; Paul G. Desmarais Sr., the head of one of Canada's wealthiest families; and the former prime minister, Brian Mulroney, as well as Mr. Black."I knew she would go far," said Claude Frenette, a financial executive who gave Ms. Drouin her first job as a graduate of the University of Ottawa.She became head of the Hudson Institute in Canada, and her public stature grew through a serious of columns that she wrote for The Financial Post.In 1987, she joined the board of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, perhaps the most prestigious corporate board in Canada; Mr. Black had long been a member.According to her testimony, it was through the bank's board that she came to know Mr. Black. She soon became part of his expanding social world, attending such luminous events as the annual Hollinger dinner in 1989, when President Ronald Reagan spoke.In 1994, after her marriage to Mr. Kravis — for both of them it was their third  — Ms. Kravis moved to New York.People who know Mr. Black say he is an imperious, headstrong man and not one to take criticism easily. Yet in 2003, as Hollinger came under scrutiny, it was Ms. Kravis who, according to her testimony, advised him "to be a little more humble" toward his antagonists. She was, however, one of the first major directors to resign as the scandal broke, doing so in late 2003 in a serious public relations blow for Mr. Black.As she acknowledged on the witness stand, her role in Hollinger's downfall has been embarrassing. On the stand, she admitted to receiving a  notice from the Securities and Exchange Commission saying that she might be under investigation, although the commission did not bring any action against her.  Stung by the Hollinger experience, she has resigned from her major corporate boards, including Ford Motor, Vivendi and IAC/InterActiveCorp."She was an excellent director," said Barry Diller, the chief executive of IAC. "But she said this has become an unpleasant process."Now, she has assumed the full trappings of the billionaire's wife: she is an active trustee and past chairwoman of the Robin Hood Foundation and is in the middle of a five-year term as president of MoMA, where she has used her corporate ties to energize and deepen support for MoMA from business leaders."Marie-Josée is a serious person," said Jerry I. Speyer, a real estate executive and fellow MoMA trustee. "And she is not a lady who goes to lunch. She is successful in her own right and not just because she married Henry."She and Mr. Kravis split time among homes in Southampton, N.Y.; Paris; and New York.For some close followers of Mr. Black, it was this rapidly elevated status that enhanced the couple's taste for the luxurious lifestyle that would prove to be his undoing."The Kravises were a role model for Conrad and Barbara," said Peter C. Newman, a biographer. "It was the jets, it was Palm Beach and it was New York society where they wanted to be accepted. And that is where the trouble started, because Marie-Josée's husband was a billionaire and Conrad was only a millionaire."A Classical Music entry today in the Week Ahead report on Page 4 of the Arts & Leisure section gives an outdated reference in some copies to the soloist who will appear at the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra concert at Carnegie Hall today. The mezzo-soprano Michelle DeYoung will perform — not Natalie Dessay, who withdrew because of illness after the section went to press. (Go to Article)Arts & LeisureAn article last Sunday about a new DVD version of "The Naked City" referred incorrectly to the 1948 film. It was considered a prestige release, not a B movie. (B movies were low-budget features that played second on a double bill.) (Go to Article)An article on May 6 about "The Simpsons Movie" misstated the credits of the movie's director, David Silverman. He was a co-director of "Monsters, Inc.," not the director. And he was one of several directors of "The Road to El Dorado," not the sole one. (Go to Article)An article on May 6 about the actress Nikki Blonsky included incorrect information from the actress and her director, Adam Shankman, about the circumstances of her casting in the film "Hairspray." Morgit Management, which represented her at the time, sent New Line Cinema an e-mail message with a Web link to a copy of her audition tape. She won a tryout as a result of that e-mail message, not a copy of the tape she sent separately by mail. In addition that taped audition was made with the help of the management company, not solely by Ms. Blonsky. (Go to Article)Sunday BusinessAn article last Sunday about Rupert Murdoch's digital ambitions for the newspaper industry referred incorrectly to the independent board of directors at The Times of London. An independent board was in place when Mr. Murdoch acquired the newspaper in 1981, and he has maintained it; he did not install it. (Go to Article)The Country Indexes table on the DataBank page on April 29 and May 6 carried incorrect data from FTSE International for the performance of foreign stock markets. Corrected tables are online at nytimes.com/business/yourmoney.TravelThe 36 Hours column on May 6 about Istanbul misspelled the name of a magazine whose readers might enjoy Istanbul. It is Archaeology, not Archeology. (Go to Article)Book ReviewA review on May 6 about "I'll Sleep When I'm Dead: The Dirty Life and Times of Warren Zevon," by Crystal Zevon, misspelled the surname of the writer who contributed the book's foreword. He is Carl Hiaasen, not Hiassen. (Go to Article)Sunday StylesAn article last week about the photography of Leonard Nimoy referred imprecisely to his acting career. He had some minor roles beginning in 1991; he did not stop acting in 1990. (Go to Article)Real EstateA report in the Big Deal column last Sunday about the strength of the Manhattan residential real estate market this spring referred incorrectly to the nearest cross street to the Lucida, a new condominium on East 85th Street. It is Lexington Avenue, not Third Avenue. (Go to Article)The "In the Region" article in New Jersey copies last Sunday, about residential developments in downtown Morristown, misidentified the developer of DeHart Place, a project of nine Victorian-style town houses. The developer is Lennar Urban — not Roseland Property, which is serving as DeHart Place's "designated master redeveloper." (Go to Article)New JerseyAn article last Sunday about a traveling outdoor art exhibition, "Coexistence," misstated the support provided for it by Rutgers University, Johnson & Johnson and the City of New Brunswick. They provided in-kind services, not direct financing. (Go to Article)The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper's journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com.MALIBU, Calif., May 17 (AP) — Floyd Landis's arbitration  hearing took a chaotic twist Thursday when Greg LeMond, his fellow American Tour de France champion,  revealed he had been sexually abused as a child and said that the Landis camp tried to use it as blackmail to keep LeMond from testifying.It was a shock, not only because of the content of the  much-awaited appearance by LeMond, a three-time Tour de France winner,  but because of the contrast between his testimony and three days of hearings  focusing on the scientific details surrounding tests that indicated Landis had used synthetic testosterone, a banned substance, during his victory in the Tour de France last year.LeMond told of a conversation he had with Landis after news of Landis's positive "A"urine sample during his 2006 Tour victory had become known in the news media.LeMond said he had urged Landis to come clean if, in fact, his backup "B"sample also came back tainted. He said he encouraged Landis to help the sport of cycling and "more importantly, help himself."LeMond testified that Landis replied by saying: " 'What good would it do? If I did, it would destroy a lot of my friends and hurt a lot of people.' "LeMond  said he used the account  of his being sexually abused when he was 6 as an example of how it is good to get things out in the open. "It nearly destroyed me by keeping the secret," LeMond said.He said he told Landis that very few people knew that about him, then accused someone in the Landis camp of using that information Wednesday night in an attempt to intimidate him from appearing as a witness.LeMond described receiving a call Wednesday evening from someone who claimed to be his uncle. He said he later traced the call to the cellphone of Will Geoghegan, Landis's manager."He said, 'I'll be there tomorrow and we can talk about how we used to perform a sexual act,' " LeMond said of the phone call. "I thought this was intimidation to keep me from coming here."He said he was so distraught by the call, he filed a police report, which was presented as evidence by lawyers. Malibu sheriff's officials, however, declined to release the report or details about it, saying the case was under investigation.LeMond showed his cellphone screen with a record of the number from which he received the call. The number matched that on Geoghegan's business card.That marked the end of LeMond's brief testimony.The cross-examination of LeMond, designed to expose his motives and impeach his credibility, was called off because LeMond refused to answer questions about Lance Armstrong. "I just have to say, again, this is completely unfair," said a Landis lawyer,  Howard Jacobs.He wanted to ask LeMond about suggestions he has made in the past that Armstrong, a seven-time Tour de France winner, might have used performance-enhancing drugs.But LeMond said he did not think that was the main point."I think they didn't want me coming here today," LeMond said. "I don't know why. If you didn't do anything wrong, why would you mind me coming here today?"Arbitrators called for a break to determine whether LeMond's testimony could be allowed. As the parties were leaving the room, LeMond confronted Geoghegan.LeMond said afterward that Geoghegan apologized and admitted he made the call. Maurice Suh, another lawyer  for Landis, told Geoghegan "you're fired" while they were still standing in the hearing room."It was a real threat, it was real creepy, and I think it shows the extent of who it is," LeMond said.
