SEARCHING for a reason you are not being promoted fast enough? Look in the mirror.So suggests Gil Schwartz, a corporate executive writing in Men's Health. He says some people unwittingly sabotage their careers by falling into any number of self-created traps.Some workers, for example, think they work best under pressure and, therefore, leave everything to the last minute.But "the night before it's due is not the last minute for a 40-page speech to investors, or a strategic planning document that's going to be presented to the board of directors," he writes. "The last minute, in those cases, is a month prior to the night before."Another factor that may hold a worker  back, Mr. Schwartz said, is "hardness of listening." He says: "You have to be a really big wheel to enjoy a total lack of obligation to pay attention to other people."Finally, Mr. Schwartz suggests making sure you handle the issue of credit and blame well."As a rule of thumb, attempt to receive no more than 70 percent of the credit that's due you," he writes. "Give away the rest." As for blame, he says, "Real players never dodge it when it belongs to them."NOT A TEAM PLAYER If you are employed, being part of a team at some point is probably inevitable. And so, too, are dysfunctional teammates.Writing in O, the Oprah magazine, Suzy Welch, the former editor of The Harvard Business Review, offers tips for coping with some of the common types of what she calls "un-teammates."One type she points to is boss haters — people who have never met a person in authority they like. Ms. Welch suggests trying to isolate them. "Once they're cut off from the group, Boss Haters tend to lose their energy."Stuck with an obnoxious "star" whom the company loves?  Accept their best ideas and try to ignore the preening, the ego and everything else that comes with them, Ms. Welch writes. "Few bosses want to hear nattering about a goose that is laying a golden egg."And there is the person who has "an excuse for every act of inaction," Ms. Welch says. "Their computer melted down. Their elderly aunt came to visit."Do not do their work for them, even when they beg, she advises. If they get really cloying, suggest they go to the boss for help.GULP! The boss just called to say she wants to hear your big idea at 4 p.m. Health offers  three suggestions:¶Snack well. "To avoid feeling jittery, keep your blood sugar levels even with a quick nosh containing complex carbohydrates and protein. Try some hummus on half a whole wheat pita or a handful of almonds with an apple."¶Rehearse differently. Read your presentation out loud twice, just before you have to give it. Not only will that keep everything uppermost in your mind, you will loosen up your vocal cords.¶Present powerfully. Most people stand with one foot in front of the other, which tempts them to rock back and forth and makes them appear unfocused. Plant your feet shoulder width apart and balance on the center of your feet, not your heels.FINAL TAKE Here's depressing news courtesy of Glamour: Work can make you fat even if you do not eat more. "A new British study found that chronically stressed female workers were 73 percent more likely to become obese than their more relaxed colleagues — despite similar diets and exercise levels," Elise Nersesian writes. One theory is that long-term stress increases levels of cortisol, a hormone that promotes the storage of belly fat, said one author of the study, Tarani Chandola, of University College in London.PAUL B. BROWN DISRUPTION is easy to spot — in hindsight," Business 2.0 correctly notes.Everyone could see that the automobile would replace the horse and buggy or that CDs would make records all but obsolete.The trick is to spot the technology and products of tomorrow, and that is what Erick Schonfeld and Chris Morrison try to do in the article "The Next Disruptors."They single out "10 businesses with the potential to rewrite the rules of existing industries or open up entirely new markets."These are among the firms or ideas highlighted:Blinkx. A video search engine that can identify "more than 14 million hours of video available on the Web, everything from YouTube clips to 'Seinfeld.' "Bloom Energy. The company is developing a solid-oxide fuel cell that it believes "could generate more than enough electricity to power a house."MFG.com. This is basically the eBay of manufacturing. "In the past 12 months, $2 billion worth of gears, molds and machined parts were sourced and traded on the site."Virgin Charter. This is a disruptive idea within a disruptive idea. Air taxis, or short-hop planes that you can charter whenever you want, are expected to be ubiquitous soon. Virgin Charter (Richard Branson is the majority investor) plans to be "the Expedia of airplane chartering."SWING AND A MISS Even if they think they know what is coming, executives have their doubts about their companies' ability to capitalize on it. That is the depressing conclusion of a survey of 3,693 executives conducted by the consulting firm McKinsey & Company.The firm found that these executives think they have a handle on the near future. The McKinsey Quarterly reports that more than three-quarters think there is an opportunity to exploit the increasing availability of knowledge, almost as many think there will be a faster pace of technological innovation, and more than half think "there will be a growing number of consumers in emerging economies."Yet, when asked whether their firms had taken "active steps" to capitalize on these trends, a substantial number said no. You are left to draw your own conclusions as to why.INSURANCE QUESTIONS When there is a disaster, the insurance companies that homeowners count on to protect them "routinely pay less than what policies promise," Bloomberg Markets Magazine concludes.Homeowners often receive "30 to 60 percent of the cost of rebuilding a damaged home — even when carriers assure homeowners that they're fully covered, thousands of complaints with state insurance department and civil court cases show," write David Dietz and Darrell Preston in an article, "The Insurance Hoax.""Paying out less to victims of catastrophes has helped produce record profits," they add."In the past 12 years, insurance company net income has soared — even in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, the worst natural disaster in U.S. history. Property-casualty insurers, which cover damage to home and cars, reported their highest-ever profit of $73 billion last year."The writers say court records in some states show that property insurers "systematically deny and reduce" their policyholders' claims and routinely refuse to pay market prices for homes and replacement contents and "use secret tactics to cheat homeowners."One tactic that insurance companies use, they say, is to put off paying for as long as possible, by delaying settlements and stalling court procedures brought against them by frustrated policyholders.Insurance industry executives quoted in the article deny any wrongdoing.PAUL B. BROWN When President Bush recently announced a plan to help beleaguered homeowners avoid foreclosure, one of his aides made a point of saying, "We are not using the b-word" — bailout.But a bailout it is. A government bailout is aid to people or industries in financial distress. It shields them from the full losses they would incur if left entirely to the vagaries of the market. A bailout is  justified when remedial assistance averts even greater harm to the economy.Mr. Bush's plan meets those criteria. Its most direct relief measure would allow an additional 80,000 at-risk homeowners to refinance their loans through the Federal Housing Administration, on top of 160,000 already eligible. Though not likely to be aggressive enough — some two million homeowners are  now headed for default — the refinancing effort is a good first step. Properly executed, it would help families and communities that could otherwise be ruined, with devastating effects on consumer spending, tax revenues and state and local governments. Also important, Mr. Bush's plan   shows a rare willingness to work with Congress on getting more help to people who need it.Similarly, the Federal Reserve's recent efforts to grease the financial markets, a k a Wall Street, also amount to a bailout. The meltdown in the market for subprime-mortgage-related debt — a market fostered by Wall Street — has sharply curtailed lending, threatening a cascade of business and financial failures. To parry the threat, the Fed has lowered its lending rate, injected tens of billions of dollars into the markets, and also allowed banks to funnel extra billions to clients who presumably would otherwise fail and in the process wreak havoc on the markets and the economy.Indeed, the Fed's ongoing bailout of Wall Street added to the political pressure to help ailing homeowners. It was simply too unseemly for the government to  take steps that aid Wall Street bankers without aiding the far more vulnerable people caught up in the same crisis.Now, policy makers from Mr. Bush on down must acknowledge the bailouts for what they are — government interventions in private markets to correct for something that has gone very wrong. They may be squeamish about using the "b-word" because of its negative connotations. They can call their actions "responses" if that makes them and edgy markets feel better.But if, deep down, there is no acknowledgment of a bailout — no "b-word" — there will be no grappling with the "c-word," complicity. The White House is complicit in the current mess for advancing an absolutist notion that self-policed markets self-correct, and therefore require little or no regulation. The Federal Reserve and other regulators are complicit because they failed to rein in clearly reckless lending. The Congress of the bubble years is complicit for failing to oversee the derelict regulators. For the current bailouts to ultimately do more good than harm, those failings must be vetted and corrected via stronger laws, regulation and oversight.WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 — The anticorruption drive led by Paul D. Wolfowitz as president of the World Bank, which shook the institution and contributed to his downfall, remains hampered by weak management, internal distrust and employee resistance to combating fraud, a panel of outside experts concluded Wednesday.The panel, led by Paul A. Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman, recommended that the bank's new president, Robert B. Zoellick, work with the bank board to overhaul its antigraft operations and instill more confidence among bank employees and affected countries."This is not an easy problem," Mr. Volcker said in an interview on Wednesday. "By far the most important thing is getting the entire bank on board with the importance of an anticorruption effort. This goes against decades of grain in the other direction. There's been outright conflict in the bank as to whether to have an anticorruption function."The long-awaited report said it was impossible to quantify the losses from bid-rigging, bribes, poor quality of goods and services and other problems of graft in the operations of more than $20 billion a year in lending to poor countries."There is, however, a general sense that the losses are substantial," it said. Current and former officials at the bank say that some form of fraud affects as much as 40 percent of the bank's programs. Corruption was a signature issue of Mr. Wolfowitz, a former deputy defense secretary under President Bush who was forced to resign from the bank in May after the disclosure that in 2005 he had arranged for a pay and promotion package for Shaha Ali Riza, his female companion and a bank employee at the time.His actions related to fighting corruption, like suspending aid to countries without consulting the bank's board, ruptured his ties with the  staff and directors. One effect was that the board and Mr. Wolfowitz agreed to bring in Mr. Volcker last year to examine the anticorruption efforts.Mr. Zoellick welcomed the report for its "excellent and I hope most useful" recommendations, and he indicated that he would probably put most of them into effect. Aides close to the new president say that whether anticorruption efforts succeed will depend as much on his personal efforts to heal rifts at the bank as on managerial changes.In an interview, Mr. Zoellick said many of the Volcker proposals were in line with plans he and his staff had already generated. "The most important recommendation is that anticorruption efforts are a vital function of the bank and need to be incorporated into everything we do," he said.By all accounts, Mr. Volcker, who had investigated the United Nations oil-for-food scandal in which Iraq siphoned off money from its oil sales, had to navigate many contentious charges and countercharges. Many of them focused on the activities of the institutional integrity unit led by Suzanne Rich Folsom, a Wolfowitz appointee and onetime Republican Party activist.Many bank employees charged that under Ms. Folsom, the anticorruption campaign was waged selectively and unfairly against employees and countries and that it was intended to carry out the agenda of a conservative Republican distrustful of the bank's mission.Supporters of Ms. Folsom said, on the other hand, that they had been constantly stymied by bank employees who saw corruption as minor and as an acceptable cost of doing business in poorly governed countries.The Volcker report, while exonerating the anticorruption team of unfairness or political motivations, said  a "siege mentality" in the institutional integrity unit led to "excessive secrecy" about its activities and a refusal to share its findings with colleagues and people in the affected countries.In general, the report said the bank had done a poor job in following up findings of corruption with remedial action in many countries, and it recommended that Mr. Zoellick select a top manager to oversee efforts to work with countries and regional bank officials to root out graft once it is uncovered. It also called for an outside panel of advisers to evaluate antigraft activities.In a significant rebuke to Mr. Wolfowitz, the panel also recommended that the head of the integrity unit not serve as a counselor in the president's office, as was done under Mr. Wolfowitz. Critics had charged that  Mr. Wolfowitz and his top aides received information on corruption from Ms. Folsom that was not shared with colleagues, leading to financing decisions that rewarded or punished countries for political reasons, and to retaliatory actions against personnel without due process.In the interview, Mr. Volcker said he and his investigators had found no evidence that the bank acted in favor of or against any country based on political motivations. "These questions of bias and so forth, we've found no substantiation of them," he said. But he added that the follow-up on corruption charges was "cumbersome" and "slipshod."The panel also recommended that the anticorruption drive be carried out by a more diverse staff, a reference to the criticism that, under Mr. Wolfowitz, nearly 40 percent of the staff and most of the unit's leaders were American.A major question left by the report, especially among the bank's 10,000 employees, was the future of Ms. Folsom's leadership. Top aides to Mr. Wolfowitz have left the bank, and many bank employees have openly hoped that Ms. Folsom will follow.But the report praised the operation of the integrity unit, and implicitly the performance of its director. Going further, Mr. Volcker said in the interview that she had done an outstanding job and that he had found no evidence to back up the charge that she had exhibited favoritism.Mr. Zoellick also said he had no intention of removing Ms. Folsom, and Ms. Folsom, a lawyer with experience in corporate ethics matters, issued a statement praising the Volcker report and said she would not resign. "I am dedicated to the work of this department and the mission of the institution," she said.However, two people close to Ms. Folsom said that after the  battles over Mr. Wolfowitz, and after being vindicated by the Volcker report, they would not be surprised if she left this year.The panel also recommended that the integrity unit discontinue investigations into sexual harassment — Mr. Volcker said it was a "chronic problem" at the bank — and other forms of personal misconduct, which it said had been a distraction and a focus of  bitterness among bank employees. These charges should be investigated by a  unit in the human resources division, the report said.Katherine  Frawley  Downs,  a  daughter of Catherine  B. Downs and Thomas Mohler Downs of Annapolis, Md., was married last evening to Peter Louis Oppenheim,  a  son of Gwendolyn  Oppenheim and Carl Howard Oppenheim of Chevy Chase, Md.  Rabbi Allan L. Smith officiated  at the summer home of the bridegroom's parents in Bozman, Md., with the Rev. Benton L. Garrett, a Roman Catholic priest, taking part.The bride and bridegroom, both 28, met at American University Washington College of Law, from which they graduated, he cum laude.Mrs. Oppenheim is a  legislative aide in Washington to Senator Mike Crapo, an Idaho Republican. She graduated from Hamilton College. Her father retired as a partner in the Washington office of Swidler Berlin Shereff Friedman, a law firm.Mr. Oppenheim is an associate specializing in international business at the Carmen Group, a  lobbying firm in Washington.  He graduated from Colby College. He is on the board of the Mayflower Foundation, which he founded with fellow Colby graduates. The foundation, in Boston, raises money for disadvantaged children.His father is the president and chief executive of Republic Foods in Bethesda, Md., which owns nearly two dozen Burger King franchises.  The bridegroom's father is also a board member and the vice president of marketing of the National Symphony Orchestra in Washington.One of the most influential business books ever written is a 1,200-page novel published 50 years ago, on Oct. 12, 1957. It is still drawing readers; it ranks 388th on Amazon.com's best-seller list. ("Winning," by John F. Welch Jr., at a breezy 384 pages, is No. 1,431.)The book is "Atlas Shrugged," Ayn Rand's glorification of the right of individuals to live entirely for their own interest.For years, Rand's message was attacked by intellectuals whom her circle labeled "do-gooders," who argued that individuals should also work in the service of others. Her book was dismissed as an homage to greed. Gore Vidal described its philosophy as "nearly perfect in its immorality."But the book attracted a coterie of fans, some of them top corporate executives, who dared not speak of its impact except in private. When they read the book, often as college students, they now say, it gave form and substance to their inchoate thoughts, showing there is no conflict between private ambition and public benefit."I know from talking to a lot of Fortune 500 C.E.O.'s that 'Atlas Shrugged' has had a significant effect on their business decisions, even if they don't agree with all of Ayn Rand's ideas," said John A. Allison, the chief executive of BB&T, one of the largest banks in the United States."It offers something other books don't: the principles that apply to business and to life in general. I would call it complete," he said.One of Rand's most famous devotees is Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, whose memoir, "The Age of Turbulence," will be officially released Monday.Mr. Greenspan met Rand when he was 25 and working as an economic forecaster. She was already renowned as the author of "The Fountainhead," a novel about an architect true to his principles. Mr. Greenspan had married a member of Rand's inner circle, known as the Collective, that met every Saturday night in her New York apartment. Rand did not pay much attention to Mr. Greenspan until he began praising drafts of "Atlas," which she read aloud to her disciples, according to Jeff Britting, the archivist of Ayn Rand's papers. He was attracted, Mr. Britting said, to "her moral defense of capitalism."Rand's free-market philosophy was hard won. She was born in 1905 in Russia. Her life changed overnight when the Bolsheviks broke into her father's pharmacy and declared his livelihood the property of the state. She fled the Soviet Union in 1926 and arrived later that year in Hollywood, where she peered through a gate at the set where the director Cecil B. DeMille was filming a silent movie, "King of Kings."He offered her a ride to the set, then a job as an extra on the film and later a position as a junior screenwriter. She sold several screenplays and intermittently wrote novels that were commercial failures, until 1943, when fans of "The Fountainhead" began a word-of-mouth campaign that helped sales immensely.Shortly after "Atlas Shrugged" was published in 1957, Mr. Greenspan wrote a letter to The New York Times to counter a critic's comment that "the book was written out of hate."  Mr. Greenspan wrote:  " 'Atlas Shrugged' is a celebration of life and happiness. Justice is unrelenting. Creative individuals and undeviating purpose and rationality achieve joy and fulfillment. Parasites who persistently avoid either purpose or reason perish as they should."Rand's magazine, The Objectivist, later published several essays by Mr. Greenspan, including one on the gold standard in 1966.Rand called "Atlas" a mystery, "not about the murder of man's body, but about the murder — and rebirth — of man's spirit." It begins in a time of recession. To save the economy, the hero, John Galt, calls for a strike against government interference. Factories, farms and shops shut down. Riots break out as food becomes scarce.Rand said she "set out to show how desperately the world needs prime movers and how viciously it treats them" and to portray "what happens to a world without them."The book was released to terrible reviews. Critics faulted its length, its philosophy and its literary ambitions. Both conservatives and liberals were unstinting in disparaging the book; the right saw promotion of godlessness, and the left saw a message of "greed is good." Rand is said to have cried every day as the reviews came out.Rand had a reputation for living for her own interest. She is said to have seduced her most serious reader, Nathaniel Branden, when he was 24 or 25 and she was at least 50. Each was married to someone else. In fact, Mr. Britting confirmed, they called their spouses to a meeting at which the pair announced their intention to make the mentor-protégé relationship a sexual one."She wasn't a nice person, " said Darla Moore, vice president of the private investment firm Rainwater Inc. "But what a gift she's given us."Ms. Moore, a benefactor of the University of South Carolina, spoke of her debt to Rand in 1998, when the business school at the university was named in Ms. Moore's honor. "As a woman and a Southerner," she said, "I thrived on Rand's message that only quality work counted, not who you are."Rand's idea of "the virtue of selfishness," Ms. Moore said, "is a harsh phrase for the Buddhist idea that you have to take care of yourself."Some business leaders might be unsettled by the idea that the only thing members of the leadership class have in common is their success. James M. Kilts, who led turnarounds at Gillette, Nabisco and Kraft, said he encountered "Atlas" at "a time in college life when everybody was a nihilist, anti-establishment, and a collectivist." He found her writing reassuring because it made success seem rational."Rand believed that there is right and wrong," he said, "that excellence should be your goal."John P. Stack is one business executive who has taken Rand's ideas to heart. He was chief executive of Springfield Remanufacturing Company, a retooler of tractor engines in Springfield, Mo., when its parent company, International Harvester, divested itself of the firm in the recession of 1982, the year Rand died.Having lost his sole customer in a struggling Rust Belt city, Mr. Stack says, he took action like a hero out of "Atlas." He created an "open book" company in which employees were transparently working in their own interest.Mr. Stack says that he assigned every job a bottom line value and that every salary, including his own, was posted on a company ticker daily. Workplaces, he said, are notoriously undemocratic, emotionally charged and political.Mr. Stack says his free market replaced all that with rational behavior. A machinist knew exactly what his working hour contributed to the bottom line, and therefore the cost of slacking off. This, Mr. Stack said, was a manifestation of the philosophy of objectivism in "Atlas": people guided by reason and self-interest."There is something in your inner self that Rand draws out," Mr. Stack said. "You want to be a hero, you want to be right, but by the same token you have to question yourself, though you must not listen to interference thrown at you by the distracters. The lawyers told me not to open the books and share equity." He said he defied them. " 'Atlas' helped me pursue this idiot dream that became SRC."Mr. Stack said he was 19 and working in a factory when a manager gave him a copy of the book.  "It's the best business book I ever read," he said. "I didn't do well in school because I was a big dreamer. To get something that tells you to take your dreams seriously, that's an eye opener."Mr. Stack said he gave a copy to his son, Tim Stack, 25, who was so inspired that he went to work for a railroad, just like the novel's heroine, Dagny Taggart.Every year, 400,000 copies of Rand's novels are offered free to Advanced Placement high school programs. They are paid for by the Ayn Rand Institute, whose director, Yaron Brook, said the mission was "to keep Rand alive."Last year, bookstores sold 150,000 copies of the book. It continues to hold appeal, even to a younger generation. Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, who was born in 1958, and John P. Mackey, the chief executive of Whole Foods, who was 3 when the book was published, have said they consider Rand crucial to their success.The book's hero, John Galt, also continues to live on. The subcontractor hired to demolish the former Deutsche Bank building, which was damaged when the World Trade Center towers fell, was the John Galt Corporation. It was removed from the job last month after a fire at the building killed two firefighters.In Chicago, there is John Galt Solutions, a producer of software for supply chain companies like Tastykake. The founder and chief executive of the company, Annemarie Omrod, said she considered the character an inspiration."We were reading the book," she said, when she and Kai Trepte were thinking of starting the company. "For us, the book symbolized the importance of growing yourself and bettering yourself without hindering other people. John Galt took all the great minds and started a new society."Some of our customers don't know the name, though after they meet us, they want to read the book," she went on. "Our sales reps have a problem, however. New clients usually ask: 'Hey, where is John Galt? How come I'm not important enough to rate a visit from John Galt?' "The Securities and Exchange Commission sued four  former finance officers at Nortel Networks yesterday, saying they helped the former chief executive, Frank A. Dunn, manipulate reserves to enhance earnings.The four men — Douglas A. Hamilton, Craig A. Johnson, James B. Kinney and Kenneth R. W. Taylor, all former vice presidents for finance at Nortel units — were named as defendants in an amended complaint filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the commission said.The S.E.C. initially filed suit in March against Mr. Dunn; the former chief financial officer, Douglas C. Beatty; and the  former controller, Michael J. Gollogly, saying they improperly manipulated reserves to create the false impression that Mr. Dunn was improving results. The agency said yesterday that the manipulation was carried out "with the active participation" of the four new defendants.Nortel, based in Toronto, restated financial results in 2005, saying it had inflated sales by $3.4 billion, going back to 1999. The company is the biggest maker of telecommunications equipment in North America.The lawyer representing Mr.  Taylor, who was once vice president for finance at Nortel's enterprise business unit, said he did not know the S.E.C. was going to amend its complaint. "I wasn't given advance notice, and it comes as a surprise to me," said the lawyer, Harold McGuire.Lawyers for the other three men either declined to comment or did not immediately return telephone calls.Nortel fired all four men on Aug. 9, 2004, after the company learned about allegations of an accounting fraud, according to the S.E.C.The S.E.C. opened a formal investigation into Nortel's accounting in 2004. That led to the firings of Mr. Dunn, Mr. Beatty and Mr. Gollogly in July 2004. At that time, Nortel said it had put four individuals holding senior finance positions on a paid leave. It did not identify the executives.In May, Nortel settled with the Ontario Securities Commission, which conducted a parallel investigation, by agreeing to pay 1 million Canadian dollars ($940,000) to cover the cost of the inquiry. Nortel did not admit or deny wrongdoing.The company has agreed to pay $2.4 billion to settle shareholder lawsuits over the accounting irregularities.Round Rock, Tex.ON a recent afternoon at his company's headquarters here, Michael S. Dell  is seated in a spacious conference room named Dobie Hall — in honor of the University of Texas dormitory where, in 1984, he started the computer giant that bears his name.He boasts that Dell Inc. has just reported quarterly profits that exceeded Wall Street projections. It's an encouraging sign, he says, that the company — buffeted by high-profile production problems and accounting shenanigans — is finally regaining momentum.Over the last few years, Dell, once the gold standard among PC makers, has simply overlooked major growth trends in personal computing. It missed significant shifts in notebook computer sales and the consumer market as a whole, lagged competitors in international sales, and lost the profit edge that it enjoyed from its superior procurement-and-supply network. Hewlett-Packard, having overcome its own woes, passed Dell last year as the largest seller of PCs worldwide.Dell's ills  also extend beyond the nuts-and-bolts of making and marketing PCs. After a yearlong internal investigation,  Dell conceded last month that some managers had falsified quarterly results to meet sales targets from 2003 to 2006. The company expects to reduce earnings over those years by $50 million to $150 million, tiny sums compared with the billions of dollars in profits it earned during that same period. (Dell posted annual sales of about $57 billion last year.) Yet the accounting disclosures suggest a corporate culture in which at least some senior managers felt under such pressure that they doctored the numbers; the disclosures have prompted a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation."The company was too focused on the short term, and the balance of priorities was way too leaning toward things that deliver short-term results — that was the major root cause," explains Mr. Dell, dressed for the Texas summer in a short-sleeved polo shirt and jeans.The recent setbacks would be humbling for any company, but especially so for Dell, a smooth-running machine for years and a model of the efficiencies that the shrewd use of technology and customer information can produce. Dell was widely admired beyond the technology industry, and it was cited in business-school studies alongside companies like Wal-Mart Stores.Successful entrepreneurs, of course, are hardwired by inclination and necessity to look beyond immediate hurdles for opportunities, and Mr. Dell is no exception. He says he is not leading a simple turnaround, but rather a long-term campaign to transform a company known for a cultlike adherence to a certain way of doing business.As the company surged to the lead in  the  PC industry,  the "Dell model" relied on direct sales over the Internet and by telephone rather than through retail stores, cutting prices to gain market share, focusing on computer hardware rather than services, leaning heavily on the American market and avoiding acquisitions. But since Mr. Dell reclaimed the role of chief executive in late January, he has changed all that.At internal meetings, he repeatedly emphasizes that the Dell model "is not a religion," according to staff members. Moreover, Mr. Dell — who once ran a company famous for its laserlike devotion to next week rather than next year — no longer champions    short-term goals and fixes. "We're moving the needle in terms of getting focused on the right long-term issues," he says.But re-engineering the Dell model will be a daunting challenge. "Dell continued to do the same old thing, when it was no longer working," observes David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. "This is going to be about changing the way they do business at many levels.""Dell can do it," Mr. Yoffie adds, "but it's going to take a lot more innovation on more fronts than the company has shown in the past."LAST year was, to borrow a term, the annus horribilis for Dell. Its problems kept building throughout 2006:  sluggish growth, disappointing financial results, complaints about customer service, even a high-profile safety recall of notebook computer batteries. Not all of these were the company's fault. For example, Sony made the batteries that could overheat and catch fire, causing other companies like Apple to also issue recalls.But there was no disputing that Dell had stalled. Wall Street, as well as Dell's own board,  had become impatient with the company's management. So a change came quickly early this year, at the end of January. Dell's outside directors voted unanimously that the company needed a single leader instead of having a chairman (Mr. Dell) and a separate chief executive (Kevin B. Rollins, who had been C.E.O. since 2004).At the time, Mr. Dell was attending the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, and when the board asked him to become chief executive, he agreed. There were a few long walks, he recalls, when he was "deep in thought" about how to proceed, but he did not hesitate about taking over. He had built the company, after all, and his name was on every box it shipped."I have a responsibility," he says.So, on Jan. 31, Mr. Dell became chief executive — again — and Mr. Rollins, a former Bain consultant who joined Dell in 1996, was out. Mr. Dell describes Mr. Rollins as a "great business partner and friend." Other executives at Dell also point to Mr. Rollins's  contributions over the years, as the operating field general beside Mr. Dell during the years of torrid growth. But Mr. Rollins, they say, was seen as the foremost practitioner, and advocate, of the old Dell model, even when pushing the same buttons no longer worked.Still, Dell executives are quick to say that Mr. Dell's return as chief executive has nothing to do with any sharp differences between him and his predecessor. Rather, it was due to the depth of Dell's troubles and the need for someone to assume control and forcefully take the company on a different path."It's not all about Michael versus someone else before," says Paul D. Bell, a senior vice president. "Michael was here. He was chairman. But it was up to Michael to take the first-mover role in driving change and he did it."Mr. Dell began shaking things up immediately. He has recruited senior executives to lead the company's marketing, consumer products, operations and services business. He is also paring layers of middle management as part of a plan to trim Dell's payroll by 10 percent, or roughly 8,800 workers.In recent months, the company has stepped beyond selling over the Internet and by telephone — the famous Dell direct model. It has forged retail agreements to sell computers at Wal-Mart stores in the United States, at Carphone Warehouse outlets in Europe and at Bic Camera stores in Japan. More retail deals are in the works.Rethinking the retail business was a matter of necessity. A lot has changed, Mr. Dell notes, since the company tried and abruptly exited retail sales in 1994. The shift in the consumer computer market and toward notebooks, which customers want to touch before buying, is part of it. So is Dell's need to do better in markets abroad, where people are less comfortable buying computers by phone or over the Internet. "We're going after those new customers with retail partners," Mr. Dell says.He  also moved quickly on another front. Whereas the Dell of old shunned acquisitions, the company is now willing to go shopping. It has made three deals in the last two months — business and consumer software companies  — and there will be more, Mr. Dell says. But he says   that they will be limited to purchases of smaller companies and start-ups, with 50 to 500 employees, to add technology and expertise that promise to "turbocharge growth" in businesses earmarked for investment and rapid expansion, like services, consumer offerings, international sales and building data centers tailored for big Web companies.The consumer market looms large for Mr. Dell. Consumers were traditionally an afterthought at Dell, which garners more than 80 percent of its sales from corporate customers. Home computer users generally had to settle for business computers that were tweaked a bit for the masses and were little more than bland, generic boxes.But in recent years,  consumers became picky. Where users once focused on price, processing speed and storage capacity, they now looked for stylish, well-designed machines as well  —  a trend common throughout the entire consumer electronics business, but one that was lost on Dell."On the consumer side, we're drastically changing what we're doing," Mr. Dell says. "We're only touching the surface of the opportunity now."Ronald G. Garriques, who joined Dell from Motorola in February, is guiding the change in Dell's consumer strategy. Selling machines with more flair in retail stores is part of the plan, said Mr. Garriques, president of the global consumer group, a new position at Dell. But he suggests that Dell will take a hybrid approach, offering hardware options, extra features and services through its Dell.com site on machines that it also sells in stores.Dell's direct online relationship with customers,  Mr. Garriques says, can help it develop services that link PCs, software and cellphones. To illustrate Dell's thinking, he describes as a possibility a  service that would allow parents to use Web maps and cellphone signals to track family members on the screen of a Dell PC in the kitchen. "With Dell's direct-to-consumer model," he says, "we can bring that as a solution to families."Such offerings, he says, don't have to generate big profits on their own. "Great services sell a lot of devices that use those services," says Mr. Garriques, noting how Apple's iTunes music service has fed iPod sales.Dell also hopes to offer services on hardware beyond PCs. Last month, the company agreed to buy Zing Systems, a Silicon Valley start-up that makes software for hand-held devices that manage and exchange entertainment wirelessly, without the need for a PC. Zing's founder is Tim Bucher, a former product designer at Apple.Stale design remains an issue, and something the company has to continue to address if it wants to lift consumer sales. It recently recruited designers from around the world and more than doubled the size of its design group, to 80, in the last year. Dell designers now speak of product "love" and "lust," observes Ken Musgrave, the director of industrial design —  a far cry from just a few years ago, when design always took a back seat to competitive pricing.In June, Dell introduced notebook computers in eight  colors. And color, Mr. Musgrave says, is merely the "first level of personalization" for Dell. He showed off prototype notebook shells in different materials and designs, noting that Dell's build-to-order system gives it the freedom to make highly stylized and personalized machines in limited runs of just dozens to a few hundred. "There are a lot of different design levers to pull for the future," he says.AS soon as he took over as chief executive, Mr. Dell declared a two-month "amnesty"  to encourage people to discuss problems and deal with them quickly, without fear of being fired or demoted. Otherwise, Mr. Dell says, managers might have understated troubles and  defended past decisions.One common issue, he says, was that there was "no central leader" in areas like manufacturing, services, sales and marketing. A decentralized organization of many go-it-alone groups, focused on regional markets, made sense when Dell was growing from $5 billion to more than $55 billion in annual revenue over the previous decade, faster than any technology company in history. Then, chasing growth opportunities was the priority.Dell's marketing epitomized the fragmented approach. When Mark Jarvis joined Dell as its chief marketing officer in April, he did an inventory of the advertising and marketing firms that worked for the company worldwide. The total count was 869. "The company didn't really evolve, it just grew," he says.Mr. Jarvis is now moving to streamline Dell's marketing. In the last month, he has cut in half the number of the company's marketing and ad agencies. By the end of October, he says, Dell will select a lead worldwide agency. One goal, he says, is greater consistency in the themes, message and approach of the company's marketing. The new internal marketing slogan is "One Company, One Brand, One Beat." Already, there is a change in the look of Dell ads. Themes like ease of use and personalization are prominently featured.Mr. Jarvis, a former Oracle executive, says Dell's brand is widely known and respected, but often not linked to a clear message. So he wants to give the brand a makeover, saying that in the consumer market, it needs to be "much cooler and go away from low prices; a lot of people see us as a cheap PC company, and that's not where we want to be."In the corporate market, Dell plans to pitch itself as the company that can simplify information technology for businesses, part of an effort to gain market share  from competitors like I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystems. When asked how his long-term agenda will change the company, Mr. Dell is direct: "It will push us much more into solutions and services from products. That doesn't mean products go away. But there's going to be a big element of doing more for customers through services."The services strategy is long overdue. Services is a bigger market than hardware, and corporate customers were asking Dell to do more to help them manage their data centers more efficiently, according to current and former company executives. But Dell was slow to react, and the lapse illustrates the perils of doggedly sticking to the old model and ignoring a promising new market. Instead of making long-term investments in building a services business, Dell just kept its eye on hitting quarterly sales targets by peddling Dell hardware and other companies' software.Dell recruited Stephen F. Schuckenbrock last December from Electronic Data Systems to lead its services business. Today, Dell garners $5 billion a year in services revenue, but most of that comes from technical support and maintenance on Dell machines.Mr. Schuckenbrock wants Dell to help corporations run their data centers, while reducing hardware budgets, energy consumption and staffing. Mr. Schuckenbrock predicts that services will grow three to four times faster than the company's overall growth rate. A former Dell executive, who requested anonymity because he is forbidden to discuss company matters,   said a recent internal report concluded that the company's annual revenue from services could reach $20 billion over the next five to seven years.Dell is already a major reseller of VMware, the dominant maker of virtual machine software used to juggle operating systems and applications on a single server. Dell plans to expand the relationship with VMware by offering virtualization services and its own data-center tools. In July, Dell bought SilverBack Technologies, a start-up that makes software to monitor and manage computers. The goal, Mr. Schuckenbrock says, is to offer "the best point of view, technology and solutions to optimize industry-standard data centers."Until a year or so ago, Dell tried to sell its standard products to leading Web giants like  Yahoo, Salesforce.com and Microsoft. But those customers wanted something different. Eventually, Dell listened and designed circuit boards, cabling, racks and power management systems to suit the requirements of large individual customers. (Google, which still designs and builds its own computers, is not yet among them.) Prototypes can be built in weeks, with thousands of the custom-made computers shipping in months. That rapid response, says Brad Anderson, a senior vice president, is "really back to Dell's roots."Mr. Anderson says that the biggest initial hurdle for Dell on these big deals is its reputation as a producer of commodity computers. "It takes time to convince them that Dell is committed to novel products and real innovation," he says.DELL still faces formidable obstacles as it tries to regain its footing. Just three years ago, Dell's hyperefficient operations gave it margins that were six to eight  percentage points higher than those of its principal rival, Hewlett-Packard, according to a recent report by Sanford C. Bernstein. Today, Dell has no such edge."We created this incredible supply chain, and that sort of stagnated," Mr. Dell acknowledges. "We squandered that away. Some of our competitors jumped over us in a Darwinian way. Now it's our turn."To solve his operating headaches, Mr. Dell brought in Michael R. Cannon, the chief executive of the Solectron Corporation, a contract manufacturer, as Dell's  head of global operations in late February. Mr. Cannon is convinced that Dell can regain its advantage by tightly integrating regional operations into a close-knit global network. "Manufacturing is going to be a core competence at Dell," Mr. Cannon says, "and there is a lot of room for innovation."But the Dell manufacturing machine has sputtered recently. It has had trouble perfecting the bright colors on its new notebook computers, resulting in shipment delays and irritated customers. Dell says it is moving swiftly to correct the production problem, caused in part because it significantly underestimated demand for its new notebooks.Dell's corporate comeback, its founder says, will not always go smoothly. "Hey, we've got a lot of work to do," Mr. Dell concedes, "and we're just getting started."And the man  once known as a by-the-numbers, short-term thinker is now, apparently, planning many years ahead. Asked about how long he intends to remain chief executive, Mr. Dell compares himself to Wal-Mart's founder."I'm 42 years old. I think that would put me on the young side for C.E.O.'s," he says. "I don't think Sam Walton became a C.E.O. until he was 45."So how long will he remain C.E.O., then? "A long time," he responds.
