To the Editor:Re "Making a Killing," by Mike White (Op-Ed, May 2):I agree with Mr. White that filmmakers have a moral responsibility for the messages they put out.As a screenwriter, I am hesitant to work in the hugely popular slasher genre for that reason. But I also believe that Mr. White pays insufficient attention to the titanic market forces that our business operates under.  Not giving the audience what it  wants is a foolhardy endeavor.Instead of avoiding violence altogether in our work, I propose that the filmmaker benefits himself and the audience most by presenting violence in its bleak reality, with its consequences clearly laid out. This makes for both a more informed audience and a better film.Ari B. RubinVenice, Calif., May 2, 2007To the Editor:Re "Making a Killing," by Mike White (Op-Ed, May 2):I agree with Mr. White that filmmakers have a moral responsibility for the messages they put out.As a screenwriter, I am hesitant to work in the hugely popular slasher genre for that reason. But I also believe that Mr. White pays insufficient attention to the titanic market forces that our business operates under.  Not giving the audience what it  wants is a foolhardy endeavor.Instead of avoiding violence altogether in our work, I propose that the filmmaker benefits himself and the audience most by presenting violence in its bleak reality, with its consequences clearly laid out. This makes for both a more informed audience and a better film.Ari B. RubinVenice, Calif., May 2, 2007Two members of the Ottaway family, a minority partner in Dow Jones & Company, released scathing statements yesterday saying that a takeover by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation would ruin Dow Jones and its crown jewel, The Wall Street Journal.The controlling Bancroft family said last week that family members representing 52 percent of shareholder votes opposed Mr. Murdoch's $60-a-share bid, a steep premium for a stock that had recently traded around $36. But their statement was vague, leaving it unclear whether family members objected to the price, to Mr. Murdoch or to a sale on any terms.The Ottaways' statements left no such ambiguity, questioning the journalism and the ethics of Mr. Murdoch and of News Corporation properties like the Fox News Channel and The New York Post, known for their right-wing political bent and racy tone.James H. Ottaway Jr., a trustee for most of the family shares and formerly a longtime Dow Jones executive and board member, said, "Dow Jones has no good reason to be sold to anyone." And the reputation of The Journal and Dow Jones for serious, accurate and objective work, he said, "would be damaged if Rupert Murdoch and his News Corporation take over Dow Jones," he said."He has for a long time expressed his personal, political and business biases through his newspapers and television channels," Mr. Ottaway said. The Post "regularly runs biased news stories and headlines supporting his friends, political candidates and public policies, and attacks people he personally opposes," while at Fox News, "one man's political opinions have become the editorial and news policy."He accused Mr. Murdoch of caving in to political pressure to advance his business interests, contrasting the actions of a News Corporation property, Star TV, in bowing to Chinese government censorship, with The Journal's editorial page censure of Chinese human rights abuses. "I doubt its freedom to criticize the Chinese government would continue under Murdoch ownership," he said.The right answer to the News Corporation bid, Mr. Ottaway added, is that "Dow Jones is not for sale, at any price, to Rupert Murdoch."Attempts to reach a News Corporation spokesman yesterday were unsuccessful.Mr. Murdoch wants The Journal in part to bolster the new cable business channel he intends to start this year, in competition with CNBC. He said in an interview early this year with The Journal that CNBC was too eager to report on scandals, and that his channel would take a more positive view of business.That approach is disturbing, said James W. Ottaway, a son of Mr. Ottaway, who released a statement of his own yesterday."As an investor, I would be very concerned to live in an era of making investment decisions based on the Murdoch-filtered business information," he said. "As a citizen, I would be afraid to live in a world where news is solely entertainment, and there is an agenda behind every story I read, watch or hear."The Bancrofts and the Ottaways are the largest owners of Dow Jones' Class B stock, each share of which has 10 times the voting power of a regular share, and they also hold large numbers of the regular ones.The Bancrofts are by far the dominant faction, with more than 64 percent of the shareholder vote owned by the family and its trusts. But the Ottaways, with more than 5 percent of the votes, are among the largest shareholders. And James H. Ottaway Jr., in particular, is a respected figure within Dow Jones and with the Bancroft family.Mr. Ottaway, 69, headed his family's chain of small newspapers in several states for more than 40 years, before and after it became a part of Dow Jones in 1970.At his retirement in 2003, he was a senior vice president of Dow Jones and chairman of Ottaway Newspapers, an important profit center for a company with often meager earnings. He is a trustee for the vast majority of his family's Dow Jones shares, along with his wife, Mary H. Ottaway, and his brother, Christopher H. Ottaway.ALTRUSHARE SECURITIES is a brokerage firm, engaged in the sort of things you might expect of a Wall Street outfit, like buying and selling stock, and providing research on companies. Unlike its peers, however, the firm is majority-owned by two charities that each control about one-third of it.So is it a for-profit business? Or a nonprofit fund-raising machine?In fact, like hundreds of new businesses starting up around the country, it is both. Altrushare is an example of the emerging convergence of for-profit money-making and nonprofit mission.The practice is even creeping into corporate bluebloods like General Electric, whose $12 billion Ecomagination business promotes its products' minimal environmental impact as well as their positive impact on the bottom line."We're a for-profit institutional brokerage, and we have to compete on execution and commissions and do so with the same technology and talent you would expect from a top-tier firm," said Peter Drasher, a founder of Altrushare, which is based in Bridgeport, Conn. "What makes us different is our nonprofit ownership and our mission, which is to support struggling communities with our profits."The nonprofit sector is also part of the movement. Motivated by growing competition to attract donor dollars, charities are going beyond longstanding practices. Some are adopting innovative investment strategies or owning other ventures outright."I think what people are increasingly looking for, whether in the for-profit or nonprofit sector, is how you harness the vitality and promise of capitalism in a way that's more fair to everyone," said Juliana Eades, the president of the New Hampshire Community Loan Fund, a nonprofit mortgage lender that has begun dabbling in other types of financing.The result is a small but budding practice — what some label the fourth sector — composed of organizations driven by both social purpose and financial promise that fall somewhere between traditional companies and charities. The term "fourth sector" derives from the fact that participants are creating hybrid organizations distinct from those operating in the government, business and nonprofit sectors. But because the types of participants vary widely and much of the activity is nascent, no single name for what is occurring has gained broad use."There's a big movement out there that is not yet recognized as a movement," said R. Todd Johnson, a lawyer in San Francisco who is working to create an online wiki to engage in the give and take of information for what he calls "for-benefit corporations," another name for fourth-sector activities.Consumers, employees, managers and — perhaps most important — investors are driving the phenomenon."Young M.B.A. students are not satisfied with going to work for a normal corporation because they are passionate to do good in the world and do it in business," Mr. Johnson said. "People of faith want exactly the same thing, and there is a whole generation of people who've become extraordinarily wealthy as a result of the technological revolution and are now asking themselves if they can create change in the world."Those desires are reflected in the growth of so-called sustainable enterprise programs at the nation's most prestigious business schools, in the corporate marketing campaigns that emphasize social benefits instead of mere sex appeal, and a blossoming of new investment vehicles like Good Capital, Investors' Circle, Underdog Ventures and the Social Venture Network.STILL, whatever participants call it, the fourth sector faces challenges. Current legal and tax structures draw strict lines between for-profits and nonprofits, and fiduciary obligations prevent asset managers from making investments with any aim other than maximizing profit. The social benefits that fourth-sector firms seek to unlock are not easily quantified and often take decades, not quarters, to attain."You run into fundamental problems in trying to grow good because neither for-profit nor nonprofit is set up to do what new entrepreneurs and others are trying to do — namely, harness the power of private enterprise to create social benefit," said Jay Coen Gilbert, co-founder of B Lab, a start-up organization based in Philadelphia that will develop what he calls "B corporations," which engage in fourth-sector pursuits.Even so, some mainstream companies say it makes sense to give the emerging fourth sector serious consideration. Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street investment bank, has a four-member research team that assesses the environmental, social and management performance of companies in the same way that  more traditional colleagues analyze financial performance.Goldman's efforts grew out of a report it produced in 2003 for the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative. It was asked to come up with ways to measure corporate response to issues ranging from gas emissions to employee health and safety practices and to determine how they related to the companies' financial performance.To the firm's surprise, investors began asking for the report, which it had regarded as a one-time project, and requesting more of them. So far, Goldman has produced similar reports on the media, mining, steel and food and beverage industries. Each week, it sends out an e-mail message on sustainable investing to about 400 contacts at 80 institutions worldwide."Integrating factors such as environmental impact and corporate governance is an increasingly critical part of investment research," said Marc Fox, a research analyst at Goldman. "What began as a niche market of socially responsible investors has expanded to mainstream institutions such as pension funds and insurance companies who seek long-term investment performance."In 1993, Mr. Coen Gilbert was a founder of And 1, a $200-million footwear company based in Paoli, Pa., committed to enriching its employees' work lives while using its profits to support youth development and educational programs.Long before the Internet era, And 1 provided a gym, yoga classes and other perks to its employees. It also required suppliers to avoid engaging in sweatshop labor practices and hired an independent auditor to monitor compliance. It contributed 5 percent of its profits to charity, and gave money "even when there weren't any profits," Mr. Coen Gilbert said.And 1 was privately held and thus faced none of the pressure to produce quarterly returns that confront public companies, yet it struggled to maintain socially minded programs as it grew. Another privately held company bought And 1 in 2005 and ended the employee wellness programs and charitable activities."Under our corporate documents, we had a single fiduciary responsibility, to maximize return for shareholders, and that's how we made the decision to sell the company," Mr. Coen Gilbert says.Legions of companies that have sought to occupy the middle ground between nonprofit and for-profit have bowed to pressure to sell to conglomerates, including Ben & Jerry's (sold to Unilever) and the Body Shop (now owned by L'Oréal). Others, most notably Patagonia, have simply refused to sell or to go public.Similar companies today are evolving in a different environment. Investors, customers and consumers are developing a more holistic approach and focusing on the longer term, attitudes that support changes in the way business is done.Companies themselves are beginning to understand that what appears to be an expense today may in fact produce lucrative long-term benefits, either by reducing costs or resulting in products and services that can be sold. And investors are increasingly rewarding companies for such actions."There are many motivations for this," said Abby Joseph Cohen, Goldman Sachs's influential chief United States portfolio strategist. "Companies are taking a broader view that allows them to see that a cost today may reduce future liabilities, and the reduction of those future liabilities in turn has a positive impact on their cost of capital."Among major investors, perceptions of profit and value are changing, too. For instance, the California State Teachers' Retirement System, the $162 billion pension fund, has taken a hard look at insurance companies. It decided that companies in the industry were not paying enough attention to climate change and thus were a riskier investment than in the past, according to Jack Ehnes, the chief executive of the fund."In the past, we've created this dichotomy between financial and social, and investors have been ridiculed for placing too much emphasis on social factors," Mr. Ehnes said. "Maybe that bright line test is really phony and in fact there has to be a commingling of these factors in investment analysis. If you're really going to be thinking long term about a company's profitability, you'll need a better tool kit for your analysis."The pension fund holds stakes in wind farms, solar panel manufacturers and developers of low-income housing in its alternative-investments portfolio, and it has assigned a team to assess the impact of factors like environmental stewardship on risk and financial performance across its portfolio.Funds like the teachers' pension fund are big clients of Wall Street firms, as are many of the wealthy individuals who are looking for opportunities in the fourth sector. By and large, however, investors like those are not looking to invest in companies like the Farmers Diner in Quechee, Vt. — which tend to be extremely risky, no matter how well intentioned they may be."Companies like us have no conventional road map to follow in building our businesses and thus are greeted with a lot of skepticism," said Tod Murphy, who founded the diner nine years ago.Farmers Diner is aiming to build a new food sourcing and distribution model. About 65 percent of its budget for food ingredients is spent within 70 miles of the restaurant, and it tries to educate local farmers about new business practices. The goal is to create a network of four restaurants served by a central kitchen that draws most of its ingredients from the local market.Making the model work has been difficult, though. The diner's original location, in Barre, Vt., was too small to generate the revenue needed to cover expenses. Banks would not back the venture, and Mr. Murphy's angel investor, a money manager named Cathy Berry, eventually was tapped out.The diner closed for a year, reopening in a much larger space in Quechee. Mr. Murphy says that it is on track to have more than $1 million in revenue this year, and that another person has promised to make an investment if the diner can demonstrate consistent profitability.For her part, Ms. Berry remains enthusiastic about enterprises like the diner; she is on the board of Investors' Circle, one of many organizations working to link investors to hybrid companies."What we are constantly coming up against is our tax laws and our culture," Ms. Berry said. "The whole fabric of society wants us to make money on one side and do good with it on the other. What we're saying is: What if we did both things at once?"She and others argue that current laws, tax structures and definitions of fiduciary responsibility encourage companies to shift costs onto society. "We have created cheap food by investing in huge agricultural conglomerates — but is it really cheap?" she asks. "No. Look at the pesticides those businesses use and then look at the cleanup costs to society. Look at the health costs."Ms. Berry, Mr. Murphy and others like them want tax breaks to offer incentives that compensate businesses for absorbing the social costs of their activities."We want social responsibility to be completely embedded in everything we do, not something that occurs as a sort of sideline," said Heerad Sabeti, co-founder of TransForms, a company started in 2005 in Raleigh, N.C., that makes removable wall decorations. "It has to be an integral part of our business."Mr. Sabeti says he is tired of advisers who tell him to run TransForms as a purely commercial venture and to simply direct a portion of its profits after the fact to a foundation for distribution to good causes. "What good does that do if I'm using plastic for my packaging and helping to contribute to job losses by manufacturing in China?" he asks.Mr. Sabeti and his wife, Maja Palej, the chief executive, chose to manufacture their products in the United States rather than in China, despite the higher labor costs, to support jobs here. They also hired a nonprofit group that offers training, education and employment to disabled people to handle packaging.TransForms, with revenues of almost $2 million, has financially succeeded, its owners say, in part because it landed a steady client: Bed Bath & Beyond, the housewares company. Thanks to that relationship and new ones with QVC and Target Online, TransForms has not needed outside investors. But Mr. Sabeti knows that he needs such backing to gain credibility, and he is hoping to attract one or two angel investors to supply $1 million or more in capital.HE worries, however, that bringing in investors will force him to compromise his commitment to his principles.  "I don't know that as a for-benefit company, you're going to spin off the kind of returns venture capital demands, or that you'd want to," he said.That's the reason fourth-sector financiers are so important to the growing movement; they're willing to invest patient capital that supports businesses that produce both profit and social benefits. For instance, the New Hampshire Community Loan Fund, a 23-year-old nonprofit organization that was one of the first to develop resident-owned mobile home parks, has branched out into a form of venture capital.In many ways, the loan fund operates under even greater fiduciary constraints than mainstream investment managers. Nonprofits are risk-averse, given their role as stewards of charitable donations, and their tax-exempt status limits what they can do in operating a business.So, in 2002, when the loan fund wanted to keep alive Bortech, a tiny machine-tools company in Keene, N.H., to preserve jobs, it used an investment structure that combined aspects of equity without giving the fund outright ownership of Bortech. When a founder wanted to sell the company, the loan fund provided a local buyer with a $500,000, 10-year loan at 9 percent interest; the buyer agreed that the fund would also be paid a percentage of Bortech's revenues for the next five years."Our goal in making this investment was to keep the company from leaving the region, and if we structured the deal to give us a piece of the equity, all we would really be doing was delaying the inevitable because it would have to be sold if we were to realize that value," says John Hamilton, who oversees the loan fund's venture financing.To foster socially minded business practices, the fund also gave the company's new owner, Leo White, revenue-sharing rebates for reducing Bortech's environmental impact or for broadly engaging employees in its business.Today, the loan fund's investment has been replaced by bank financing, Mr. White's business has thrived, and Bortech now has 14 employees, twice the number it had when the loan fund first jumped in. The loan fund itself is tapping a source of capital that many fourth-sector participants would like to see become more available to hybrid businesses — so-called program-related investment.Most common program-related investments, or P.R.I.'s, are low-interest loans that foundations provide to nonprofits. The Ford Foundation, which helped pioneer the concept in the late 1960s, has some $170 million in assets sunk into program-related investments in 99 nonprofit groups, including the loan fund.Ford's average loan is $2 million, far larger than its average grant, and such investments help nonprofits establish a credit and repayment history that can help them get bank financing in the future.Investors and others are pushing to expand the use of such loans, perhaps through changes to the tax code that would make them available to businesses as well as nonprofits. Foundations, however, would likely be wary of extending the reach of P.R.I.'s, because they can be risky. For instance, many of the roughly 15 percent of P.R.I.'s that the Ford Foundation has written off went to for-profit businesses run by nonprofits rather than for the operation of the nonprofits, the foundation says.DESPITE the potential pitfalls, business relationships between for-profit and nonprofit players are increasing. Mr. Drasher, Altrushare's founder, has even commissioned a study of the phenomenon because he was surprised by how many nonprofits have a piece of for-profit businesses.During a 20-year career as a trader on Wall Street, he grew to appreciate the power that capital markets had to foster and build emerging markets around the world. "I really did see what this industry has done for regional emerging markets, which have become a legitimate and desirable asset class, and I started asking myself, 'Why aren't we doing the same thing for our own emerging markets, our underserved communities?' " Mr. Drasher said.Many pension funds invest in low-income housing development and other types of real estate in poor neighborhoods, "but communities are about more than real estate," he said. "You're not going to change people's lives by giving them low-income housing alone," he added. "They need job opportunities and education."Altrushare has created a mentoring and jobs program with the New York Institute of Finance for college students. The goal is to put each student in the program into a paid internship at a Wall Street firm.Could Altrushare or any other budding hybrid become another G.E.? Perhaps the better question is whether G.E. and other corporate titans could themselves become hybrids.Shortly after Jeffrey R. Immelt took the helm at G.E., he traveled around the world talking to customers, who asked for energy-efficient technologies,  says Peter O'Toole, a G.E. spokesman.Mr. Immelt committed $1 billion toward research and development that would reduce the environmental impact of its products — leading to the unveiling in 2005 of Ecomagination, a unit that sells  products like the GE90-115B aircraft engine."Each year, a fleet of 16 twin-engine aircraft powered by GE90-115B engines will emit 141,000 fewer tons of greenhouse gas emissions than if it used the competing airframe requiring four engines," the division's Web site says. "That equals the carbon dioxide absorbed by 35,000 acres of forest, an area twice the size of Manhattan." Ecomagination products make up more than 7 percent of G.E.'s sales and are expected to produce $20 billion by 2010.But G.E. also promotes the engine's ability to help the customer's bottom line by increasing fuel efficiency. "This wasn't something we did to make ourselves feel good," Mr. O'Toole says. "It has a real business rationale."SUMMERTIME and the viewing is lousy and noisy and deedle-dee dumb, or so the received wisdom has it. It is our season of stupidity, summertime, that interminable stretch when adults surrender the nation's theaters to hordes of popcorn-chugging, sugar-jonesing, under-age nose-pickers for whom the cinematic experience means nothing more than recycled big, bigger, biggest bangs. It is the season of mass distraction, of the tent pole, the event movie, the blockbuster.Blockbuster is really just descriptive, but it often carries with it a down-market whiff, as do many pop-cultural products that come with eye-catching price tags and seem precision-tooled for young audiences. Critics, including, yes, yours truly, often use blockbuster as easy (too easy) shorthand for overinflated productions that rely more on special effects than words and characters, and that distract rather than engage the audience. At its most reductive the negative spin on blockbusters is that they signal the death of cinema art and mark the triumph of the corporate bottom line, of marketing strategies, product placements and opening-weekend returns. And here you thought you were just watching Tobey Maguire run around in a unitard.But just because a movie blows stuff up doesn't mean it automatically stinks. A good blockbuster, like the recent Bond flick "Casino Royale," takes you places you might never otherwise go and shows you things you could never do. It brings you into new worlds, offers you new attractions. It takes hold of your body, making you quiver with anxiety, joy, laughter, relief. When great blockbusters sweep you up and away — I'm thinking about watching "The Matrix" for the first time with a few hundred other enraptured souls — they usher you into a realm of communal pleasure. In a culture of entertainment niches, they remind you of what going to the movies can still be like.They also remind you that without the human factor a blockbuster is nothing but a big empty box. Blockbusters that endure strike a balance between the spectacular and the ineffably human, whether it's Peter O'Toole framed against the never-ending desert in "Lawrence of Arabia" or Keanu Reeves coming down to earth in "The Matrix" as he realizes that he knows kung fu. It's the epic story of America refracted through one family in the "Godfather" films. It's a mechanical shark and Robert Shaw remembering the U.S.S. Indianapolis in "Jaws." It's Tom Cruise hanging by a thread in "Mission: Impossible" and Christian Bale standing amid a cloud of bats in "Batman Begins." It's Leonardo DiCaprio's wild eyes in "Titanic" and Kirsten Dunst's sad ones in "Spider-Man."BLOCKBUSTER usually describes products sold in enormous quantities, like movies, but also theater productions, museum shows, hit songs, books and even pharmaceuticals. The word probably originated with the powerful bombs that the British Royal Air Force used to decimate German cities during World War II, the so-called blockbusters. It soon entered the vernacular, appearing in advertisements before the end of the war, and as a clue in a 1950 crossword puzzle in this newspaper (46 across). In the early 1950s the heavyweight champion Rocky Marciano was known as the Brockton Blockbuster, after the city where he was born, and the word blockbuster routinely appeared in articles about the Hollywood vogue for super-size entertainments.These days highbrows dismiss movie blockbusters because they are often based in fantasy rather than reality, which is generally a bad thing unless the fantasy comes with a literary pedigree like "The Lord of the Rings." Blockbusters tend to be made for adolescents instead of adults, which is also a bad thing because youngsters are untrustworthy cultural consumers. (One exception: blockbusters based on children's books that also appeal to adults, like the Harry Potter cycle.) Blockbusters based on comics are invariably questionable unless they are called graphic novels and then not always. Blockbusters that open on thousands of screens are also considered dubious because anything that appeals to a wide audience is inherently suspect. I'm joking, but not really.In recent years it has become axiomatic that the 1970s special-effects-laden blockbusters "Jaws" and "Star Wars" helped bring an end to New Hollywood's flirtation with creative freedom (think of "Nashville"), ushering in the era of juvenile diversions like "Raiders of the Lost Ark." Never mind that "Jaws" is a good movie, far better at least for some than "Nashville." As Martin Scorsese says in "Easy Riders, Raging Bulls," Peter Biskind's history of 1970s American cinema: " 'Star Wars' was in. Spielberg was in. We were finished." Well, not exactly, as suggested by the little gold statue presented to Mr. Scorsese in February by Steven Spielberg, George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola, whose 1972 blockbuster, "The Godfather," also happens to be a masterpiece.The movie industry has been in the business of big — big stars, big stories, big productions, big screens and big returns — about as long as it's been a business. And as long as the movies have told stories, they have used spectacle to sell those stories. In the silent era motion-picture producers employed spectacle to help distinguish the new medium from that of the theater, creating what were essentially protoblockbusters. In the 1950s the faltering movie industry went into the business of the supercolossus, delivering epic-size stories on ever-widening big screens in part to distinguish itself from that small-screen menace called television. Much has changed about the movies in the decades since, but not so the uses of pyrotechnics, sweeping landscapes and all manner of cinematic awesomeness.Nowadays the armies of sword-brandishing soldiers may be largely computer generated, as in "300," but film spectacle works more or less the same now as it did in 1912 when the Italian epic "Quo Vadis?" hit screens with a cast of literally thousands and extreme action in the form of a chariot race. That film's pageantry, its gladiators and sacrificed Christians earned an enthusiastic thumb's up from the sculptor Auguste Rodin, who declared it "a masterpiece." (Everyone really is a critic.) The Italians were among the first in the film-spectacle business, but the Americans soon jumped in with costly productions like D. W. Griffith's benighted masterpiece, "The Birth of a Nation," which dramatically advanced the art.Spectacle didn't just enthrall audiences; it was instrumental to the very development of feature filmmaking, as directors learned how to make longer-running entertainments. Not that spectacle and narrative always mesh, then or now. In 1923 an anonymous critic for The New York Times wrote that Cecil B. DeMille's "Ten Commandments" was divided into two sections, "the spectacle and the melodrama," that might as well have been directed by two different men. The critic's admiration for the spectacle ("done with meticulous precision") tempered the larger criticism. ("It would have needed an unusually perfect modern drama to stand up in comparison.") Somewhere the producer Jerry Bruckheimer is shaking his head, wondering why he can't catch a similar break with today's reviewers.Yet if audiences dig spectacle, critics often view it with suspicion, as sneers about the modern blockbuster suggest. The negative rap on blockbusters is partly due to the literary bent of a lot of critics, who privilege words over images and tend to review screenplays, or what's left of them, rather than the amalgamation of sights and sounds in front of them. But the sneers also suggest an underlying and familiar contamination anxiety. In the 1980s "Top Gun" wasn't just a glib divertissement; it was evidence that MTV had infected the movies like a deadly virus. In the same grim light "300" isn't just a shell of a movie; it's proof that the movies have been infiltrated by an outside force, namely video games.The threats have changed over the years — from television to music videos, comic books, digital technologies and so on — yet what has remained constant is the idea that the movies are under siege. But if the movies have taught us anything it is that they are brilliant adapters. They mutate and shift, stretch and adjust, and they neutralize those threats the way an organism absorbs nutrients, by assimilating them. We call some of these movie mutations comic-book flicks and compare still others to music videos, sometimes with a sigh, sometimes with a smile. We complain about car chases and forget that D. W. Griffith was among the first to put pedal to the metal on screen. And we condemn blockbusters for, if we're lucky, doing the very thing we say we want from the movies: giving us a reason to watch.I  DON'T regularly watch the Fox News Channel, but when I do, I hardly think it is "fair and balanced." I confess to reading The New York Post, but more as a delicious treat than a trusted news source. When I lived in London, I picked up The Times of London on my way to work every morning, but felt that the once-august publication had moved a bit down-market.As we all know, Rupert Murdoch is the owner and steward of each of those media enterprises. And the Bancrofts, the family that is the controlling shareholder of Dow Jones, last week found themselves in a difficult position — forced to consider selling the family's beloved journalistic jewels to Mr. Murdoch, and not just because his offer of $60 a share is so extraordinarily large.With some hesitation, given Dow Jones's storied place in American journalism, let me explore a contrarian view: Mr. Murdoch may be the perfect publisher of The Wall Street Journal.First, a couple of stipulations: Dow Jones, like the entire newspaper industry, is struggling. It is suffering a slow decline by a thousand cutbacks, notably abroad, where the company has retreated from building its European and Asian editions of The Journal. The company's staff, like the physical dimensions of the daily newspaper, has been reduced.Many Journal reporters and editors have bridled at the prospect of a takeover. Jesse Drucker, a Journal reporter and representative of the paper's union, sounded the alarm in an e-mail message to his colleagues courting them to protest the deal. In his message, he suggested that the Bancrofts' opposition so far to a deal "indicates that they are committed to maintaining the quality of The Wall Street Journal and all of Dow Jones' publications and products."But an uncomfortable truth remains. The current state of financial affairs — caused by the continuing withering of print advertising revenues, shifting reader demographics and the seismic upheaval of the Internet  — has made it extremely hard to continue "maintaining the quality" of The Journal (despite its clutch of Pulitzers) because sources of fresh investment funds are drying up. Dow Jones's cash reserves have been further strained by the hefty dividends the Bancrofts  have pushed for over the years.  (Big dividends are in vogue in some newspaper quarters; The New York Times Company, for example, recently raised its dividend.)So along comes Mr. Murdoch, who says he plans to invest more money in Dow Jones than anyone else imaginable. During an interview in his office on Thursday afternoon, he had this to say of the $5 billion price tag he had just attached to Dow Jones: "We don't see that as the total investment at all." In other words, even more money is on the way.Mr. Murdoch spoke enthusiastically about opening new bureaus and expanding others. He wants to reverse The Journal's diminished international strategy by investing heavily in the paper in Europe and Asia. He says he is spoiling for a fight with The Financial Times, in much the same way that he took the left-for-dead Times of London and made it a real competitor to The Telegraph. He talked about spending money on marketing and on greatly expanding The Journal's brand online, leveraging the many media businesses he owns around the world.The Bancrofts — like the Grahams, who own The Washington Post, and the Sulzbergers, who own this newspaper  — are part of an important, even noble, tradition: family ownership of media enterprises dedicated to probing, sophisticated coverage of the world around them. Mr. Murdoch, for the most part, is part of a different journalistic tradition: sensationalism. So the Bancrofts, on journalistic grounds, have good reason to be wary of Mr. Murdoch.Mr. Murdoch is also part of another tradition: farsighted, creative and risky business gambits. He has made piles of money by thinking ahead of many of his competitors. The Bancrofts have presided over a company that once held a dominant position in business journalism, and they let that lead, and the financial gains that came with it, slip through their hands.As they confront their continuing financial challenges, the Bancrofts can sit around and pray that a deep-pocketed white knight emerges —  Warren E. Buffett, Bill Gates or The Washington Post are said by insiders to be favored choices — but it's hard to think that even if such potential suitors did buy it they would seriously invest in the business the way Mr. Murdoch claims he would. It could result in just another holding pattern.The Bancroft family certainly faces a difficult choice, in no small part because Mr. Murdoch, despite promising to insulate The Journal by giving the paper a separate board,  may still turn The Journal into the kind of media circus we otherwise know as Fox News and The New York Post. Still, it's curious that the Dow Jones board has not pushed the Bancrofts harder to at least engage in discussions — because it's so clear that if the board had considered Mr. Murdoch's offer in a vacuum, it would have accepted it faster than you can say "Introducing the New Fox Journal Channel."Having said that, the Dow Jones board — which is being advised by Arthur Fleischer Jr. of Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson, Richard I. Beattie of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, and Goldman Sachs — has no duty to consider the bid unless the family were to acquiesce first. (An aside: Has anyone on Wall Street found it odd that Goldman Sachs, which has been a longtime banker to Mr. Murdoch's company, the News Corporation — John Thornton, a former Goldman president, is a News Corporation director — is now representing Dow Jones, with which it has never had a relationship  before? How hard do you really think Goldman is going to push the News Corporation, considering that if a deal is ever struck, Goldman will want to make Mr. Murdoch's company a client again?)Dow Jones's chief executive, Richard F. Zannino, appears to be a clear advocate of a sale to Mr. Murdoch, describing the benefits of a deal to the board this week, according to people at the meeting. A week before Mr. Murdoch made his bid, the two men had breakfast in Mr. Murdoch's office. Mr. Zannino has been flirting with Mr. Murdoch for years — often over meetings put together by bankers like Mr. Murdoch's longtime adviser James B. Lee Jr. of JPMorgan Chase.  The News Corporation is also being advised by Nancy Peretsman of Allen & Company and Blair W. Effron of Centerview Partners.Mr. Zannino stands to make a handsome personal profit if Dow Jones is sold, of course, but when the chief executive thinks that it is better to sell the company than to keep it, shareholders should consider that a clear sign that some sort of financial impasse has been reached.The Bancrofts have clearly reached such an impasse — some of it of their own making and some of it attributable to revolutionary business shifts beyond their control. If the family cares about preserving the Dow Jones legacy and seeing the company continue to flourish, it's time to be financially creative. Rupert Murdoch is knocking on their door. MONTREAL, May 7 — The success of Alcoa's hostile $27 billion takeover offer for the rival Alcan of Canada may rest as much with politicians as investors.Announcement of the offer, which would restore Alcoa's status as the world's largest aluminum business, came Monday after attempts by the two companies to negotiate a friendly merger over the last two years. The deal would probably draw intense antitrust scrutiny.A larger issue in the short term is that the prospect of Alcan's coming under foreign control is politically sensitive in Canada, particularly in Alcan's home province, Quebec."Politics will be quite critical," said Karl Moore, an associate professor at the Faculty of Management at McGill University in Montreal.  "Quebec politics may mean there is some poison in swallowing Alcan."Shares of Alcan, which is based in Montreal, rose 34 percent Monday, or 23.02 Canadian dollars (about  $20.79), to 90.57 Canadian dollars. Its shares that trade on the New York Stock Exchange soared $21.08, to $82.11.At a news conference in a hotel down the street from Alcan's aluminum-clad headquarters, Alcoa's chairman and chief executive, Alain J. P. Belda, said his company decided to proceed with a hostile offer  to protect itself from Russian and Chinese rivals."Bigger is better in this business," Mr. Belda said."As my father used to say: ' You have to be bigger than the hole you can fall in.' "Mr. Belda declined to say what led to the collapse of the earlier merger negotiations in November.He estimated the pretax savings from combining the companies at $1 billion a year.In a brief statement, Alcan said that its directors would review the offer.Combined, the two companies would have had about $54 billion in sales in 2006 and would have produced 7.8 million metric tons of aluminum.In March, the Russian aluminum producers United Company Rusal and Russian Aluminum joined to become the world's largest aluminum producer.  In recent interviews, Alcan's president and chief executive, Richard B. Evans, dismissed the need for his company to grow larger through a merger. He also warned that any hostile takeover of Alcan might endanger the company's agreements with Quebec, which provides it discount rates for electricity, a major cost of producing aluminum. The specific terms of those arrangements are confidential, making it difficult to judge their potential impact, but the government has indicated they require Alcan to maintain its headquarters in Montreal.Sensitive to those concerns, Mr. Belda arrived in Quebec on Saturday to brief provincial politicians, including Premier Jean Charest.Mr. Belda, who was born in Brazil, spent most of his teenage years in Quebec. Unusual for the chief executive of American company, he easily slipped between English and French during Monday's news conference.Alcoa is promising that if it acquires Alcan, it will move some of its head office functions to Montreal and make the city the headquarters for its primary materials unit as well as its research and development operations.The merger news comes at a difficult time for Mr. Charest. A recent election left his government without a majority in Quebec's legislature where he faces two opposition parties with nationalist leanings. As well, many in Quebec believe that even though the Molson Coors Brewing Company maintained headquarters in  Denver and Montreal after a 2005 merger, that brewer is now run from the United States.Mr. Charest's government did not comment on Monday's announcement.The federal cabinet minister responsible for Montreal, Michael M. Fortier, however, stopped short of endorsing the deal, despite his Conservative Party's general inclination to leave businesses alone.Mr. Fortier told reporters Alcoa pledged to maintain jobs in Canada before adding: "We'll, we'll have to see."As a foreign takeover, the bid will also require federal approval.Alcoa itself has substantial operations in Quebec and elsewhere in Canada that in some cases include special cheap electricity deals with governments. Even if another bidder comes forward for Alcan, that relationship should give Alcoa a considerable advantage, Professor Moore said.Professor Moore is skeptical that Alcoa can save $1 billion a year without reducing employment in Canada. Any prospect of job cuts will only inflame the political issues surrounding the deal, he said.The bid offers Alcan shareholders $58.60 a share in cash plus 0.4108 of an Alcoa share, representing a 20 percent premium over Friday's closing price.In a note to investors, an analyst at  Morningstar,  Scott Burns, said the current offer exceeds his estimate of Alcan's stand-alone value, adding "with $1 billion of synergies planned, we think that Alcoa has left itself room to further raise its bid before it begins to destroy value."Alcan will be returning to its parent if the takeover is completed. The Canadian company was founded in 1902 by the Pittsburgh Reduction Company, Alcoa's predecessor. While Alcan was spun off as a separate company in 1928, the two companies maintained cross ownership until the arrangement was ended by court order in 1951.Alcoa noted in a statement that some operations of the merged company would have to be sold to satisfy antitrust concerns in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe and the United States.LOS ANGELES, May 7 — Some couples get along better after the divorce. But few stay quite as intimate as Paramount Pictures and its erstwhile producing partner Scott Rudin.Two years after he announced plans to leave Paramount, where he had been making movies since 1990, for a deal at the competing Walt Disney Company, Mr. Rudin, 48, is unexpectedly emerging as his former studio's most prolific producer.Over the next year or so, various Paramount units will release at least five pictures of which Mr. Rudin is a producer or executive producer: "Margot at the Wedding," directed by Noah Baumbach; Kimberly Peirce's  "Stop Loss"; "There Will Be Blood," from Paul Thomas Anderson; "Revolutionary Road," directed by Sam Mendes; and Joel and Ethan Coen's "No Country for Old Men."That pedigreed output — augmented by films for Fox, Sony and, of course, Disney — says something about Mr. Rudin's volcanic approach to his craft. He is given to eruptions that can flood an entire season, as happened in 2004, when "Closer" and "The Manchurian Candidate" were among five Rudin pictures released as the year-end holidays drew near.But the activity at Paramount, where Mr. Rudin has outproduced even Brad Pitt's Plan B — which came to the lot with the appointment of its former partner Brad Grey as Paramount's chairman — also points to hidden piping that can link a studio with its senior producers long after their visible bonds have broken.In Mr. Rudin's case, roots, relationships and dozens of film deals have kept Paramount's fate tied to his own, even as he contributes to Disney's retooled Miramax division and tends to his second career as a stage producer in New York."It was fairly easy to make peace in the kingdom once it was clear what I was going to do," Mr. Rudin said of his dealings with Paramount, speaking by phone last week. He declined to discuss details of his business. But he pointed out that his decision to leave amid regime change, though not really acrimonious, had an emotional dimension: "I had 15 years working at the same place with the same people. It was not a happy thing to contemplate that place without them."Mr. Rudin's relationship with Paramount solidified in the years when Sherry Lansing, a close ally, ran the studio. Ms. Lansing had a taste for the sort of grown-up dramas in which he specialized. And Mr. Rudin, in turn, forged close, if occasionally stormy, relationships with her lieutenants in production, marketing, business affairs and other departments.To many, the telephone-obsessed Mr. Rudin remained an overwhelming presence on the Melrose Avenue lot here even after he moved to New York in 1994. His crack-of-dawn voice messages became the stuff of legend, as he pushed the staff to promote awards candidates like "Angela's Ashes" (which received one Oscar nomination in 2000) and "The Hours" (which had nine nominations and one win in 2003). And his well-known tirades at employees and studio executives alike were feared by some.But, invoking a so-called key man clause in his contract, he announced his departure soon after a decision by the studio's corporate parent, Viacom, to replace Ms. Lansing with Mr. Grey. A top Hollywood talent manager with whom he had no strong ties, Mr. Grey, who  restructured   Paramount, appeared to leave Mr. Rudin less room in which to operate.Since then, however, a different set of relationships has made Mr. Rudin a continuing presence, even as he began transferring his primary loyalties to Disney. Among the closest  has been his connection to John Lesher, a former talent agent with whom Mr. Rudin had often done business, who is now president of Paramount Vantage, the studio's boutique division. Mr. Lesher's wife previously worked for Mr. Rudin, and his executive vice president for publicity is married to Mark Roybal, the current president of Mr. Rudin's company."Scott's been around for so long, probably half of Hollywood has worked for him," Mr. Lesher said of the family ties.Mr. Lesher, who calls Mr. Rudin "an utterly meticulous producer with a great eye," also pointed out that Mr. Rudin was bound to Paramount by a mountain of books, plays and scripts for which the studio had already paid.Michael Chabon's novel "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay," for example, is still working its way toward the screen and may soon become yet another Rudin film at the studio. (Mr. Rudin produced "Wonder Boys," also based on a Chabon novel, for Paramount.)"He had the most product in development of anyone on the lot," said Michelle Manning, who as co-president of Paramount's motion picture group was the production executive who worked most closely with Mr. Rudin before she left to become a producer in 2003. "He had all the best books and best scripts."Mr. Rudin's approach to theater producing parallels his approach to film. This season he kept one of the highest profiles on Broadway, bringing in top-shelf names to his projects: "The Vertical Hour," directed by Mr. Mendes and starring Julianne Moore; "The Year of Magical Thinking," an adaptation of Joan Didion's book, starring Vanessa Redgrave; and "Deuce," starring Marian Seldes and Angela Lansbury, who had not been in a running Broadway show since 1983.Unlike some of the newer Broadway producers, who present works that they find already fully formed, Mr. Rudin actively assembles the creative teams involved in his projects. The critical response to his plays, though, has so far been mixed.As a film producer, Mr. Rudin has played the diplomat of late, by brokering co-production arrangements to balance interests between Mr. Lesher's rapidly expanding unit and Disney's Miramax Films unit, which both  specialize in sophisticated, lower-budget fare. "I'm very comfortable with the activity we've got going with him," said Daniel Battsek, the president of Miramax. Mr. Battsek noted that Mr. Rudin was executive producer of "The Queen," which only a few months ago was nominated for six Oscars and won one, for Helen Mirren as best actress, and "Venus," which received a best-actor nomination for Peter O'Toole.Both films were distributed in the United States by Miramax. (Mr. Rudin's forthcoming Coen brothers film, "No Country for Old Men," another co-production between the two companies, will be distributed abroad by Paramount and in the United States by Miramax. Paul Thomas Anderson's "There Will Be Blood" will be released in the United States by Paramount and abroad by Miramax.)Yet Mr. Rudin's projects and his pipeline to talent have only become more valuable back at Paramount, where a high-profile but expensive deal with another pair of longtime producers, Tom Cruise and his partner, Paula Wagner, was terminated last year. Viacom's acquisition of DreamWorks, while productive, has only partly sated a need for pictures. (Mr. Rudin's "Revolutionary Road" is a DreamWorks film.)"There's no shelf life for good material," Ms. Manning said of Mr. Rudin and the trove he accumulated at Paramount. "My guess is, he could be making movies there for a long time."WHEN "Mystery Science Theater 3000" was canceled after 11 seasons in 1999, 146 distraught fans bought a full-page advertisement in Daily Variety urging another network to continue the show.  But the series was not revived, and today devotees cannot even tune in to reruns because its premise — a host and his two robot pals mock B movies — required securing those movies' broadcast rights, which expired after the show's demise.But those self-described "Misties" are welcoming a resurrection of sorts. Mike Nelson, the show's longtime host and head writer, has begun a new venture called RiffTrax, and he can now skewer virtually any movie without infringing on copyrights. Recordings of him talking back at movies can be downloaded (for fees ranging from 99 cents to $3.99) from rifftrax.com. Start playing the DVD or VHS version of the movie and Mr. Nelson's commentary simultaneously, and the effect is that of a director commenting on a DVD —  except that Mr. Nelson is inclined to say, as he does during a scene in "Star Trek V: The Final Frontier" in which William Shatner climbs a mountain, "He's actually trying to scale his own ego."So far there are more than 30 RiffTrax episodes, including "The Matrix" and "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring," with Mr. Nelson adding three or four more titles  every month. He said in a phone interview from San Diego, where he lives, that "hundreds of thousands" of the files have been purchased for download so far. (A spokesman for Legend Films, which produces RiffTrax, declined to clarify or confirm Mr. Nelson's claim, saying the company considers sales figures proprietary.)"Mystery Science Theater 3000," which had its premiere in 1989, was the brainchild of its original host, Joel Hodgson, who left the show in 1993. Canceled by Comedy Central after seven seasons, the show was picked up by the Sci-Fi Channel for another four. "MST3K," as it is commonly known, drew humor from both the upper and lower registers. The jokes could degenerate quickly from Schopenhauer to the scatological, said Christopher Cornell, a fan who  runs the Web site mst3k.com with a fellow fan, Brian Henry.While they gleefully lambasted B movies like "Attack of the Giant Leeches" and "Santa Claus Conquers the Martians," the show's writers were not predisposed to obscure films. Rather, they could afford broadcasting rights only for low-budget efforts, some of which were even in the public domain and free. But the prospect of Mr. Nelson and his colleagues training their sites on bigger game was tantalizing."Unfortunately some of the ripest potential 'MST3K' targets have always been beyond the show's reach," Peter Keepnews wrote in The New York Times in 1999. "The mind reels at the prospect of Mike and the robots sinking their teeth into 'Waterworld' or even 'Titanic.' And think what they could have done with 'Star Wars: Episode I —  The Phantom Menace,' which beneath all the special effects is an old-fashioned B movie at heart."What Mr. Nelson would have unleashed on "Star Wars: Episode I" is no longer a matter of conjecture: he and his fellow "Mystery Science" veteran Kevin Murphy (the voice of the robot Tom Servo) skewer the film in a RiffTrax commentary.Mr. Nelson, who started on the show in his early 20s and is now 42, said that shortly after the series was canceled, he considered releasing new commentaries on CD, but figured the expense of duplication, packaging and distribution was prohibitive. Releasing MP3 files on the Internet sidesteps those costs."The technology had to catch up,"  Mr. Nelson said. "Once the ubiquity of iPods and every other way to play an MP3 file came to be, it was like, well, let's give it a try."The RiffTrax Web site emphasizes that it is not "MST3K 2.0."  Mr. Nelson explained: "I'm not trying to recreate the 'Mystery Science' experience. If you like commentary, that's what this is, but there's obviously not going to be characters, there's not going to be puppets and all that stuff. I just want people to know that upfront, because of that passion that they have for 'Mystery Science.' "Short skits with a jumpsuit-clad Mr. Nelson and the robots opened the show and preceded commercial breaks, but are not part of the new format, in which Mr. Nelson and  occasional "guest riffers" —  who include the "Mystery Science" alums Mr. Murphy and Bill Corbett (the voice of the robot Crow) — use their real names."Misties always said the sketches weren't important and the premise wasn't important," said Mr. Cornell of the fan Web site,   adding that the digs at movies were primary. While viewers continue to joust over whether Mr. Nelson or the show's founder, Mr. Hodgson, was the better host, Mr. Cornell said there was near unanimity that the new venture hits the mark."RiffTrax doesn't have all the trappings of the show, but it doesn't need them," he said. "It still really feels like a little taste of the old show."Still, if RiffTrax does not appeal to some "Mystery Science" purists, they  have something to look forward to. In June, Rhino Home Video will release the 11th volume of its "Mystery Science Theater 3000 Collection," a four-DVD set of four episodes, each of which runs two hours. It is unlikely to be the last. In an e-mail message  a Rhino spokesman, Mike Engstrom, wrote, "Considering that 176 episodes were produced and we've released fewer than 60 on DVD to date, I'm hopeful we'll be in the MST3K business for years to come." (Rhino lawyers renegotiate licensing rights to the films.)Is Rhino concerned that RiffTrax might cut into its DVD sales?"Not at all," Mr. Engstrom responded. "The fans are multiplying, and I mean that literally. The college kid who loved the show in 1990 is watching the DVDs with his children."Jim Mallon, who was the executive producer of "Mystery Science Theater 3000" and holds the rights to the franchise, struck the deal with Rhino, and Mr. Nelson does not get a cut from DVD sales. (Mr. Mallon did not respond to phone and e-mail inquiries.) Asked about the chance that the cast might reunite, perhaps for all-new bonus content on a future DVD, Mr. Nelson said: "I think it's pretty much out of the question the way the business was structured and the way everyone's in different places now. I would never say never, but it's highly doubtful."What's also doubtful is whether RiffTrax will ever have downloadable tracks for the sort of movies  "Mystery Science" lambasted. In a sense RiffTrax is the yin to the  old show's yang. After all, while  "Mystery Science" sought movies because they were obscure, RiffTrax requires that they be mainstream."If it's not a big seller on DVD, then it's less likely that people will be able to rent it," Mr. Nelson said. "I try to do the ones that people have a shot at renting the DVD."
