Do you have a "leadership brand"?By leadership brand, Dave Ulrich, a professor at the University of Michigan, and Norm Smallwood of the RBL Group, an education and consulting firm he co-founded with Mr. Ulrich, mean a shared identity among your organization's leaders that differentiates what they can do from your rival's leaders."In other words, a leadership brand occurs when leaders' knowledge, skills and values focus employee behavior on the factors that target the issues that customers care about," they write in their new book, "Leadership Brand" (Harvard Business School Press, 2007).The leadership brand is "an extension of an organization brand or identity because it shows up in the behaviors and results."As examples, they point to leaders at Wal-Mart, a company known for everyday low prices, who focus on managing costs and getting things done on time. At Lexus, the company's motto   is "the  relentless pursuit of perfection," and, therefore, its leaders are expert on lean manufacturing and constantly improving quality.The authors lay out a straightforward six-step process of creating a leadership brand: state specifically what your leadership brand is; make sure the leadership brand is connected to your corporate strategy; make sure leaders are embodying the leadership brand; invest in developing it further; measure how well you are doing; and ensure all your stakeholders know what your brand is.That's fine. But what is important is the idea that leaders need to model the behavior they want their organizations to stand for.GET IT  DONE No matter what your leadership brand, the most important thing you can do is accomplish your objectives.In Entrepreneur magazine,   the venture capitalist Guy Kawasaki offers some ideas about how to execute them, including these:¶ Establish the right goals. How do you know they are the right ones? They are achievable, measurable and relevant to your achieving success.¶ Make someone responsible. "If you ask employees who is responsible for a goal and no one can answer you in 10 seconds, there's not enough accountability."¶  Make it real. "Postpone, or at least de-emphasize touchy feely goals like 'create a great work environment.' "  Companies, he says, "that execute on measurable goals are happy."¶ Create something worth executing. "If you and your team are having a hard time executing, maybe you're working on the wrong thing."SCHUMPETER LIVES Some 57 years after his death, the economist Joseph A. Schumpeter, who has been called the patron saint of entrepreneurship, is subjected to a reassessment in both Inc. and the Harvard Business Review.Writing in Inc.,  the Schumpeter biographer Thomas K. McCraw, a Pulitzer-Prize winning historian, says he remains "one of the most astute business thinkers who ever lived" and his core belief that the entrepreneur is "the source of all economic progress" seems more prescient than ever as innovation moves through our economy an unprecedented pace."Mr. Schumpeter was best known for his phrase "creative destruction," his term to describe the fact that the same innovation that creates opportunity for some (the invention of the automobile) harms others (buggy makers.)Writing in The Harvard Business Review, Glenn Hubbard, the dean of Columbia Business School, says that typically, creative destruction is seen "as a kind of unavoidable pain." It is considered to be "like a forest fire that sweeps out old underbrush and makes room for hardier new growth."But citing work by his colleague Edmund Phelps, Mr. Hubbard says a better way to view it is that entrepreneurship leads to the "free and uncoordinated contest of ideas that generate growth."  The result, he says, does not cause as much economic turbulence as you might think.LAST CALL Of course an article entitled "the best advice of all time," which purports to give the 20 rules for success "from some of the smartest investors (and other people who have ever lived) is ridiculously subjective.Still, what is striking in the piece by Carla Fried  is how applicable much of it is to entrepreneurs.For example, there is Freidrich von Schiller's warning that "he that is overcautious will accomplish little"; Eleanor Roosevelt's adage,  "It takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan;" and Pablo Picasso's comment, "Only put off until tomorrow what you are willing to die having left undone."And then there is the quote that summarizes the value of all the advice (or lack thereof.) It is from the writer Publilus Syrus in 42 B.C.: "Many receive advice, few profit by it."NEW ORLEANS — Maxine Cassin, a prominent local poet, thought her homeowners insurance would be more than enough to cover the $100,000 of hurricane damage to her Uptown house here. But two years after Hurricane Katrina hit, Ms. Cassin and her husband, Joseph, are still stranded far from home; their insurer has offered them just $41,000.Emile J. Labat III, a funeral home owner and real estate investor, thought his $300,000 homeowners policy, along with federal flood insurance, would repay him for repairing his house on Elysian Fields Avenue. But now Mr. Labat feels he was deceived. Many of his losses were not covered, and he was stunned that his deductible worked out to be $16,000.June Rees, a retired nursing professor, gave up on living in New Orleans and reluctantly moved 75 miles away to avoid skyrocketing insurance costs. The price of her homeowners and flood insurance was going to quadruple, to $8,000 a year, and it still would not have covered wind or hail damage."I've just been ripped out of it," Ms. Rees said of leaving her home in New Orleans, "as if somebody tore me away from everything I'm grounded to."Insurance companies may have paid out $11 billion to Louisianians in the two years since Hurricane Katrina, but they have also become a new villain in the tales people tell about the slow recovery here. Every neighborhood is full of horror stories about  companies that reneged on their promises, offered only pennies on the dollar in settlements, dribbled out payments, deliberately underestimated the costs of repairs, dropped longtime customers and sharply increased the price of coverage.And it is not just talk. Though, traditionally, relatively few customers sue their insurance companies, about 6,600 insurance-related lawsuits have landed in Federal District Court here; 3,700 of them are pending. Few have gone to trial. Some homeowners have settled; other cases have been dismissed or sent to state courts, which are also handling thousands of disputes.Thousands of formal complaints have been filed with the Louisiana Department of Insurance, 4,700 of them in 2006 alone. That is just a tiny fraction of the number of people who feel aggrieved, regulators say: for half a year after the storm, calls to the department reached 20,000 a month.Louisiana estimates that, on average, homeowners have received $5,700 less than the state believed they should have after the storm, leaving the government's rebuilding program, the Road Home, responsible for covering an extra $900 million of losses for 160,000 families. And even that program, originally expected to cost about $7.5 billion but now projected to cost several billion more, is not paying enough to make many homeowners whole again.The usually eye-glazing topic of homeowners insurance is so incendiary now that State Senator Walter J. Boasso, a Republican turned Democratic candidate for governor, has proposed jailing insurance executives found to have acted in bad faith.Disputing Damage CausesInsurance companies say the $11 billion they have paid for damage to houses in Louisiana is  a record.  But they have refused to pay for damage they contend was caused by flooding — which is generally not covered by homeowners insurance — even though many people here believe much of that damage was caused by hurricane wind, which usually is covered.Several lawsuits here and in Mississippi accuse insurance companies of trying to overstate flood damage so that taxpayers would pick up  more of the tab through the federal flood insurance program, which has paid out $13 billion in Louisiana. These contentions have prompted several federal investigations. In other cases, customers are arguing that the companies used deceptive business practices, putting pressure on engineers and insurance adjusters and deliberately underestimating the costs of repairs.Industry spokesmen say that most homeowners are satisfied and that 99 percent of homeowners' claims have been settled. Any problems stemmed from the huge size of the disaster, they contend, or from homeowners' failure to buy adequate insurance or to read their policies carefully. Rising rates, they say, reflect a more realistic sense of the risk homeowners assume by living in dangerous coastal areas."The insurers did an admirable job under very difficult, unique and extreme circumstances," said Robert P. Hartwig, the president and chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. "The vast majority of homeowners affected by Katrina are happy and pleased with the settlements they received from their insurers."But in New Orleans, many people say that just because they stopped fighting their insurers does not mean they are satisfied."You're so worn down by everything you've been through that you just don't have the fight left in you," said Yolanda Moon, who had expected to receive $39,000 from her insurance policy for wind damage. Instead, she and her husband got $3,000.Profits and PainByron McDonald admits that by neighborhood standards he may have spent too much money — $350,000 — to build his two-story brick house in the Gentilly neighborhood here, which was finished in 2000. But Mr. McDonald, 61, said he wanted a place he could live in until he died, so he was not worried about the resale value.The owner of a party supply company, Mr. McDonald bought the maximum flood policy available from the government program, $250,000, and about $200,000 in private homeowners insurance to cover wind damage.After the house took on five feet of water during Hurricane Katrina, the government flood program paid Mr. McDonald the full amount, plus $67,000 for contents.Mr. McDonald believed that his private insurer, the Hanover Insurance Group, was supposed to pay for damage above the flood line. Hurricane Katrina's winds had torn a ventilator off the roof, leaving a big hole for rainwater to pour through, and the water had damaged hardwood floors upstairs and kitchen cabinets. He said he had $200,000 worth of wind damage.But Hanover's response was different from the federal flood program's. The company assessed him a $5,000 deductible and has paid him only $900, he said.Hanover, he said, did pay him $1,500 for temporary living expenses, but then demanded it back when it decided that his losses had come from flooding. He said he had spent $53,000, mostly to rent places to live in other parts of the state. Dealing with his insurance company, he said, "is like talking to a wall."Because Mr. McDonald has sued Hanover, Michael F. Buckley, a spokesman for the company, declined to comment on the claim. But he said Hanover had paid more than $500 million for damages from Hurricane Katrina in Louisiana and was "proud of the work we've done in response to the storm."Other homeowners and insurance adjusters say Mr. McDonald's situation is part of a regionwide pattern in which insurance companies have tried to reduce the amount they owe policy owners, often by shifting the costs to the taxpayer-supported flood insurance program. One group of former adjusters who contend these practices have occurred filed a federal whistle-blower lawsuit, hoping to collect a share of anything the government might recover from insurance companies.The group's lawyer, Allan Kanner, said he had gathered evidence that private insurance companies are putting the burden on taxpayers to cover the companies' own losses at  more than 150 homes. Included are four on the eastern edge of New Orleans that he says received about $95,000 apiece, even though their damage had been caused by wind and rain, not  flood.The insurers, including State Farm and Allstate, the two biggest in Louisiana, adamantly deny that they improperly shifted claims to the federal flood program. "When the wind blows for a certain number of hours before the levees broke, it's a difficult call," said Joseph Annotti, the spokesman for the Property Casualty Insurers of America. "But the adjusters made the best call they could."A federal investigation  into similar accusations in Mississippi is continuing.The insurance companies have, however, scored a victory in federal court here, where a judge ruled recently that, in effect, anything homeowners collect in federal flood insurance should be deducted from the amount that private insurance companies may owe them, said Gregory P. DiLeo, a lawyer representing policyholders.Although the judge intended to make sure that owners could not earn a profit from their insurance payouts, "Homeowners are saying, 'That's not fair. I paid for two coverages,' " Mr. DiLeo said.The complaints about low payments to hurricane victims come on top of widespread criticism that insurance companies are profiting off their customers' pain. The critics cite record industry profits of $48 billion in 2005 and $68 billion last year, while policies cover less and cost more.Insurance companies, which traditionally have made much of their profits by investing premiums until the money was needed to pay claims, are now paying back to policy holders less of the premium money they collect, according to data from the A. M. Best Company, which evaluates insurers.These trends began well before Hurricane Katrina hit, but the most recent period "has been the worst," said J. Robert Hunter, director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America.Insurers say they began paring back coverage and raising rates on home insurance when costs from big claims began eating into their profits, and as competitors selling only auto insurance began luring away their most lucrative customers.In 2005, home insurers in Louisiana and in other coastal areas lost billions because of Hurricane Katrina and other storms, said Mr. Hartwig, of the insurance trade group, even as profits went up elsewhere in the country and for other kinds of insurance. Last year, profits went up throughout the industry because  no hurricanes made landfall in the United States.Mr. Hartwig said that insurers were not insensitive or greedy, but that "an insurer that is financially weak or insolvent is no use to anybody."Premiums Out of ReachThe extensive damage done by the storms of 2005 has sharply raised the cost of homeowners' insurance in the region, for those who can find a policy at all. Those costs have become a major impediment to recovery."It makes it very difficult for people, particularly those of marginal means, who want to come back, to rebuild," said Lawrence Ponoroff, the dean of the Tulane University School of Law here. "It is very tough on institutions and on attracting new business to the area."The higher premiums have made buying a house — or selling one — here more difficult, said Lynda Nugent Smith, who has been selling real estate here for 34 years. "All of a sudden your insurance goes from $2,000 a year to $6,000 a year," Ms. Smith said. "It's just that cherry on top that makes the whole pile of ice cream and whipped cream fall over."Spiking insurance prices have also discouraged builders from putting up much-needed rental housing here and are causing big problems for nonprofit groups trying to develop housing for the poor and the elderly.One such group, Enterprise Community Partners, has 11 projects on the drawing board, but only one deal has closed. And the insurance on the project is about $2,100 a year per unit, almost seven times more than it would have been before the storm, said Michelle K. Whetten, Gulf Coast director for Enterprise. "Another issue," she added, "is getting a policy at all."James J. Donelon, the state insurance commissioner, said that some companies were no longer writing new policies in Louisiana and that many were raising prices, increasing deductibles, and cutting coverage for wind and hail. (The state is so worried that insurers will stop doing business there that it has agreed to spend $100 million in incentives to lure companies.)Mr. Annotti, the insurance industry spokesman, said the  billions of dollars paid out for the unexpected surge of hurricanes in recent years has pushed insurers for the first time to focus on how crowded the coastlines have become with expensive homes and businesses."From a business perspective," he said, "you look at the coastal markets and the catastrophic exposure and you say, 'That's a dangerous place to write policies. I need to charge more or limit what I'm writing.' "State laws are supposed to protect long-time customers from losing their insurance; even so, many people in Louisiana report that their insurance policies have been canceled.Take Terral E. Miller, a sales executive who bought his first and only house in the Lakeview neighborhood in 1981. "We were very happy there, we enjoyed it very much, and it was almost paid for," he said of the two-story tan-brick house that backed up to the 17th Street Canal, which breached after the storm.Shortly after the storm, Mr. Miller, 50, was found to have colon cancer, which has since spread to his lungs and forced him to retire. He lives in an apartment in a different neighborhood. Earlier this year, he said, his insurer canceled the policy on the shell of the Lakeview house, on the ground that the house was unoccupied, leaving him without any liability coverage.With everything else he was going through, that was the last straw, Mr. Miller said. In April, he had the house bulldozed.BERLIN, N.H., Aug. 27 — For generations this was a city of mills, its skyline dotted with smokestacks rising from the banks of the Androscoggin River, its economy aligned with the fate of the paper industry.Nearly all the paper mills have closed, taking thousands of jobs, many residents and a sense of identity from this city of 10,000 in the northernmost reaches of New Hampshire.Plagued by high unemployment, vacant buildings and a recent string of fires, Berlin (pronounced BUR-lin) is trying to reinvent itself, betting that a new 1,280-bed federal prison and New England's first all-terrain vehicle park will be the economic shot in the arm it desperately needs.The decline of a mill town is a familiar story in New England, but Berlin is hoping the two very different projects will help spur growth, bringing back residents, start new businesses and introduce tourists to the region."We're trying not to put all our eggs in one basket," Mayor Bob Danderson said.Construction of the prison is expected to begin this fall, and dozens of people showed up at a recent job fair to find out about prison-related employment. Some 300 to 400 people are expected to work on the construction. About 300 permanent jobs will open up once the prison is built, and officials see a boon for local restaurants and merchants.The A.T.V. park is expected to hold about 136 miles of trail and numerous campgrounds when it is completed  in the next five years. About 20 miles are open now on the 7,500-acre tract, most of which the state bought from a logging company for $2.1 million in 2005. The state has estimated the park will eventually generate $694,000 in annual revenue."People see things coming down the pike," said Mark J. Belanger, manager of the  Berlin office of the New Hampshire Department of Employment. "For the first time in years there's hope."The state offers financial incentives to businesses that move to Berlin and surrounding Coos (pronounced CO-os) County. A third of the county's population lives in Berlin, which is 115 miles from Concord, the capital, and about 180 miles north of Boston.But there is concern about the direction the city is taking. Berlin already has a state prison, and there is opposition to the federal prison.A more controversial but much smaller project is a proposal to build a 50-megawatt power plant that would run on wood chips on a mill site in downtown Berlin. Mr. Danderson said the private development project would stabilize the city's industrial tax base while creating about 40 jobs.Business owners, however, think the project, known as a biomass plant, represents backward thinking and will stifle the city's growth."We were the community where it stank. We got an inferiority complex, and it still exists," said Richard Poulin, a gift shop owner and former state representative who worries that the plant may prevent shoppers from coming downtown.Norman Charest, the city director of economic development, said Berlin needed to look beyond industry."I think biomass serves a purpose," Mr. Charest said,  "but not in downtown Berlin.  Being a mill city has had some negative consequences because it stifled creativity, it stifled entrepreneurship and we developed a culture around that mill that now bites us in the backside."Mr. Charest said some people would always see Berlin as a place where only mills and heavy industry will thrive, a view he said would only keep the city's economy stagnant."What makes this such a challenge," he said, "is that we're having to change the culture of the community, and the culture of the region,"  Charest said. A visible sign of that change is to take place on Sept. 15, when some of the old smokestacks are to be dismantled.The loss of the mill industry has also left the city with a glut of housing. Vacant buildings abound, and the city is starting to crack down on absentee landlords. A string of fires occurred, leaving homeowners and renters on edge, and Berlin has also been attracting people from around New England who are looking for cheap housing but not necessarily employment."The low cost of housing has attracted many people of lesser means, without jobs and on disability and welfare," Mr. Danderson said. "Hopefully all this will change some of that tide."While it seems everyone admits there are obstacles to overcome, there is agreement that for the first time in a long time residents are more optimistic about the city's future. "The mountains cause the tourists, the tourists bring in dollars, and tourism brings in business and employers like us who want to hire the smart people who are here and the smart people who move up here because they like to hike," said Katie Delahaye Paine, who moved her communications research and public relations company, KDPaine and Partners, to Berlin from Durham, N.H.Claudette Boutin, 56, was raised in Berlin, left and moved back with her husband a few years ago."The prison and the A.T.V. park are a start," Ms. Boutin said. "I think this place really wants to change."IT'S Labor Day weekend, so let's talk about labor. (Capital absorbs our attention most of the other 364 days of the year.)Around 140 million people are employed in the United States. They are engaged in work like governing, manufacturing, health care providing, retailing and researching (as well as suing).This gigantic army of laborers, argues Robert B. Reich, has morphed into a nation of consumers and investors, rather than citizens. "Supercapitalism" (Knopf, $25), his 11th book, seeks to explain why this supercharged economic system is a civic problem, and what can be done about it.Mr. Reich, who teaches at the University of California, Berkeley, does not rip into opaque hedge funds and demand their regulation. Nor does he harp on lax government regulation of credit and mortgage practices. On the contrary, he criticizes many of the usual liberal fixes directed at the "excesses of the market." His book is smart and compelling, if ultimately toothless.Born in 1946, Mr. Reich served as  labor secretary  under President Bill Clinton, the avatar of the have-it-all baby boom generation. Equally significant, though, is that Mr. Reich's government service dates back to the administrations of Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter —  that is, to the 1970s, the decade when America's immediate postwar economy, a middle-class bonanza like no other, began to give way to today's upper-class bacchanalia.It was during what Mr. Reich aptly calls the Not Quite Golden Age, from 1945 to 1975, that America prospered, income inequality fell and most people trusted in government. Then, thanks to technologies like shipping containers and the Web, companies suddenly confronted brutal competition. After that, there was no going back.Consumers got more choice and lower prices, while the people on Main Street became investors. Together, newly powerful shoppers and shareholders of this supercapitalism drove a decline in labor unions and a frenzy by corporations desperate to buy some market advantage in Washington."You and I are complicit,"  Mr. Reich writes. Our "great deals" are somebody else's lower pay and some corporation's lobbying.We are hypocrites, too, he says.One of the book's examples of consumers' hypocrisy  has to do with canned tuna. J. W. Connolly, former president of Heinz U.S.A., which was the parent company of StarKist, explains that "consumers wanted a dolphin-safe product," but "if there was a dolphin-safe can of tuna next to a regular can, people chose the cheaper product. Even if the difference was a penny."With such vignettes culled from the news media, Mr. Reich disembowels proponents of corporate "social responsibility." He shows that companies like Wal-Mart are operating legally yet being shamed into incurring social costs that their competitors are not. Critics' campaigns are a misleading diversion, he argues, because they confuse businesses with what they can never be:  public interest bodies.Public-relations skirmishes are no substitute for democracy. The ritual scolding of corporations in front of Congressional committees, Mr. Reich says, goes hand in hand with Congress's failure to pass follow-up laws that reward businesses for safeguarding the environment or walking away from deals with serial human rights abusers.Washington is all about the money, he writes. In 2005, the Census Bureau listed seven suburban counties around the capital as among the 20 richest in the country. And it's not just Republicans cashing in on their service. "Upon leaving office," he notes, "more than half of the senior officials in the Clinton administration became corporate lobbyists."Would-be analysts of this trend, Mr. Reich says, have it backward; government is not historically bigger now, relative to gross domestic product, and politicians are not more corrupt. Rather, market competition is greater, which means that public policy contests — over organic labeling, for example — have more than ever become just brawls among business rivals.Here, however, we arrive at a cul-de-sac. Mr. Reich argues that the "most effective thing reformers could do is to reduce the effects of corporate money on politics and enhance the voices of citizens." But he also writes of the lock that corporations have and how "the system cannot repair itself from the inside."So he opts for consciousness-raising. The public and the media, he writes, must understand the obscured truths laid bare in his book and demand change. In passing, Mr. Reich comes out in favor of  decoupling health insurance from employers and raising the minimum wage to about half the average worker's wage. He mentions runaway C.E.O. pay but offers no prescriptions.Capping executive compensation is liable to be rejected as un-American, which it is. So here's my suggestion: a legally binding maximum on C.E.O. multiples of their own workers' salaries. Let's pick a multiple of 300, well above the historical average. If chief executives want to be paid hundreds of millions, and boards comply, no problem; the C.E.O.'s task would be to figure out how to pay the company's lowest worker hundreds of thousands.That would be supercapitalism. Chief executives could devote their formidable talents to raising the skills and living standards of loyal work forces and avoiding the huge self-imposed costs of labor turnover, rather than gaming quarterly reports. Shareholders would remain empowered to invest or divest based on performance.A lot of American businesses are already well in line with the proposed pay multiple. Companies that insist that they could never compete under the mandated guideline would have an option: look abroad for a cheaper C.E.O.To provide an incentive, Congress could enact one of Mr. Reich's best-argued proposals: elimination of the corporate income tax. But only for companies in compliance with the pay-scale multiple. Happy Labor Day.An article published on NYTimes.com on Aug. 21 about Senator Barack Obama's appearance before a Veterans of Foreign Wars convention paraphrased incorrectly from his comment about protests at military funerals. He said: "When men and women who died in service to this country are laid to rest, there must be no protests near the funerals. It's wrong and it needs to stop." He did not say that it was wrong for "anti-war activists" to protest at military funerals. (Go to Article)An article in Business Day on Wednesday about a rating downgrade of short-term notes issued by Cheyne Finance, a unit of Cheyne Capital Management of London, misstated the role that the unit's profits play for other investors. Profits from Cheyne Finance, which is known as a structured investment vehicle, are only used to bolster overall returns to investors in Cheyne Finance, not any other fund managed by Cheyne Capital. (Go to Article)For the RecordAn article yesterday about the proliferation of campaign-finance bundlers referred incorrectly in some copies to a contribution the Mitt Romney campaign received from Alan B. Fabian, a Maryland bundler indicted on fraud and money laundering charges. The money was returned to Mr. Fabian; it was not given to charity. The article also gave an incorrect spelling in some copies for the surname of a lawyer for Norman Hsu, a prominent Democratic fund-raiser facing legal problems in California. The lawyer is E. Lawrence Barcella, not Barcello. (Go to Article)A report in the Circuits pages of Business Day on Thursday, about two new printers from Hewlett-Packard, referred incorrectly to a feature on one of them. Like the A826 model, the smaller A626 does indeed have a touch screen. (Go to Article)An article in Business Day on Aug. 24 about political contributions by Silicon Valley executives referred incorrectly to contributions that Ron Paul, a presidential candidate, received from Google employees, and a correction in this space on Thursday misstated the amount of those contributions. Google employees gave the money before — not after — Mr. Paul visited the company on July 13, and the amount was $3,350, not $3,550. (Go to Article)Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Thursday about choosing high-definition televisions for viewing video games or sports referred imprecisely to a number used to denote TV resolution. The television industry markets TVs as either 1080p or 720p, but the "p" refers to the progressive scan of the image, not pixels of resolution. (Screen resolution is determined by the number of lines multiplied by the number of pixels in each line. A 1080p TV has more than 2 million pixels; a 720p TV has about half that many.) (Go to Article)An article in Business Day yesterday about the explosive growth of complex financial instruments like derivatives and structured products misstated the title and employer of Blythe Masters, who commented on the amount of money going into such instruments. She is the global head of currencies and commodities at JPMorgan Securities, not the head of global derivatives at JPMorgan Chase. (JPMorgan Securities is the investment banking unit of JPMorgan Chase.) (Go to Article)A picture caption in Weekend Arts yesterday with a review of productions at theater festivals in the Berkshires misstated the given name of an actor in "Educating Rita" at the Berkshire Theater Festival in Stockbridge, Mass. As the review noted, he is Jonathan Epstein, not Joseph. (Go to Article)A brief report in Science Times on Tuesday about a review of studies of pro-tobacco media messages in black and white neighborhoods, including seven studies involving billboard advertising, omitted the dates for the studies, leaving the impression that the analysis included current outdoor advertising. The studies were conducted from 1985 to 1998; outdoor advertising was banned beginning in 1999. (Go to Article)An article in Science Times on Tuesday about the use of radiation to produce mutations of crops misstated the properties of Japanese pears. Although Japanese pears have the crisp texture characteristic of apples, they are not a cross between apples and pears. They are pears, from the species Pyrus pyrifolia. (Go to Article)An article in Science Times on Tuesday about mite harvestmen, relatives of daddy longlegs whose distribution patterns provide clues to continental drift, misspelled the surname of the German scientist who first proposed the theory of plate tectonics. He is Alfred Wegener, not Wegner. Also, two pictures with the article were published in error. One was of an adult harvestman, or daddy longlegs. The other was of a spider that is also known as a daddy longlegs but is not a harvestman. (Go to Article)The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper's journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com.DRIVING a taxi in New York City can be a grueling, thankless job. It is also a unionless job. But on Wednesday, many of the city's 44,000 licensed cabdrivers are planning to go on strike for 48 hours to protest the new global positioning systems being installed in the city's 13,000 yellow cabs.While the Taxi and Limousine Commission supports these devices and has mandated that they be up and running in the city's entire fleet by January,  many cabdrivers — myself included — see this new technology as one big expensive headache. Perhaps the commission should listen to cabdrivers before pushing a device that we'd be better off without.The device has no navigational abilities. The monitor, which is set into the partition separating the driver from the passenger, cannot be seen or accessed from the front of the cab. It does not give directions or plot routes. All it does is keep track of where you are — both on- and off-duty — and this information is then stored in the commission's databases.Officials at the commission say the primary purpose of the devices is to track lost property and make sure cabbies aren't taking passengers from point A to point B by way of point Z. Sadly, there are some bad cabdrivers out there who take visitors for a "ride," but in reality, we have much more to fear from our passengers than they have to fear from us.However, for me and many of my fellow drivers, privacy issues aside, it's all about money. With prices ranging from around $3,250 to $4,000 to lease and install each unit, the initial costs alone are enough to drive some cabbies out of business. For private owner/operators, this could kill their year.The costs continue to pile up after the devices are installed. The test drivers who already have the touch-screens have reported finding the monitors covered in spray paint, stickers, soda and scratches.Even without vandalism, the technology is likely to break down. New computers are often plagued with bugs, and sometimes, as every cellphone user knows, satellites can lose their signals. Because these G.P.S. devices will be linked to the taximeters, when the screen is vandalized, the computer breaks down or the satellite connection is unavailable, the meter won't work. The driver will be forced to go off-duty and bring the car in for repairs. In a business where lost time equals lost pay, this is unacceptable.One fleet already using the system recently lost its satellite signal, putting about 250 cabs out of commission for nearly three hours until the problem was resolved. This translated not only into fewer available cabs on the streets, but also lower incomes for those already beleaguered cabbies.For drivers like me who lease our cabs from privately owned fleets, there isn't the burden of paying for installation or repairs upfront, but the costs may still be passed on to us in the form of "surcharges" or "tax fees." However the extra costs will be labeled, it boils down to the same thing: our expenses go up; our income goes down.The only potential benefit for passengers I can see in these machines is the credit card slide. Matthew Daus, chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, is happy to tell anyone who will listen that our tips are better as a result of this, but I beg to differ. Drivers have to pay a hefty 5 percent transaction fee while most stores and restaurants are charged an average base rate of about 2 percent. So those "bigger tips," if they exist at all, simply don't cover the costs. And since most cabs already have the ability to take credit cards, what's the point of installing a whole new system?The bottom line is, once we've installed the G.P.S. device, paid for its maintenance, ponied up for repairs and shelled out the transaction fees, what most cabbies will be left with is, in effect, a pay cut. The fare increase in 2004 just barely caught our incomes up with inflation, bringing us to just this side of a livable wage. We should not have to pay that back now.By turning a deaf ear to the opinions and expertise of taxi drivers, the commission has approved a design for an impractical and costly device that ultimately does not provide any useful "service enhancements" to the public. So when cabdrivers go on strike this week, we can only hope that New Yorkers will stand with us in solidarity.Rick Rubin is listening. A song by a new band called the Gossip is playing, and he is concentrating. He appears to be in a trance. His eyes are tightly closed and he is swaying back and forth to the beat, trying at once to hear what is right and wrong about the music. Rubin, who resembles a medium-size bear with a long, gray beard, is curled into the corner of a tufted velvet couch in the library of a house he owns but where he no longer lives. This three-story 1923 Spanish villa steeped in music history — Johnny Cash recorded in the basement studio; Jakob Dylan is recording a solo album there now — is used by Rubin for meetings. And ever since May, when he officially became co-head of Columbia Records, Rubin has been having nearly constant meetings. Beginning in 1984, when he started Def Jam Recordings, until his more recent occupation as a career-transforming, chart-topping, Grammy Award-winning producer for dozens of artists, as diverse as the Dixie Chicks, Slayer, Red Hot Chili Peppers and Neil Diamond, Rubin, who is 44, has never gone to an office of any kind. One of his conditions for taking the job at Sony, which owns Columbia, was that he wouldn't be required to have a desk or a phone in any of the corporate outposts. That wasn't a problem: Columbia didn't want Rubin to punch a clock. It wanted him to save the company. And just maybe the record business.What that means, most of all, is that the company wants him to listen. It is Columbia's belief that Rubin will hear the answers in the music — that he will find the solution to its ever-increasing woes. The mighty music business is in free fall — it has lost control of radio; retail outlets like Tower Records have shut down; MTV rarely broadcasts music videos; and the once lucrative album market has been overshadowed by downloaded singles, which mainly benefits Apple. "The music business, as a whole, has lost its faith in content," David Geffen, the legendary music mogul, told me recently. "Only 10 years ago, companies wanted to make records, presumably good records, and see if they sold. But panic has set in, and now it's no longer about making music, it's all about how to sell music. And there's no clear answer about how to fix that problem. But I still believe that the top priority at any record company has to be coming up with great music. And for that reason, Sony was very smart to hire Rick."Though Rubin maintains that his intention is simply to hear music with the fresh ears of a true fan, he has built his reputation on the simultaneously mystical and entirely decisive way he listens to a song. As the Gossip, which is fronted by a large, raucous woman named Beth Ditto, shouts to a stop, Rubin opens his eyes and nods yes. This is the first new band signed to Columbia that he has been enthralled by, but he is not yet sure how to organize the Gossip's future. "Let's hear something else," Rubin says to Kevin Kusatsu, who would, at any other record company, be called an A & R executive. (Traditionally, A & R executives spot, woo, recruit and oversee the talent of a record company.) "We don't have any titles at the new Columbia," Rubin explains, as Kusatsu, the first person Rubin hired, slips a disc out of its sleeve. "I don't want to create a new hierarchy to replace the old hierarchy."Rubin, wearing his usual uniform of loose khaki pants and billowing white T-shirt, his sunglasses in his pocket, his feet bare, fingers a string of lapis lazuli Buddhist prayer beads, believed to bring wisdom to the wearer. Since Rubin's beard and hair nearly cover his face, his voice, which is soft and reassuring, becomes that much more vivid. He seems to be one with the room, which is lined in floor-to-ceiling books, most of which are of a spiritual nature, whether about Buddhism, the Bible or New Age quests for enlightenment. The library and the house are filled with religious iconography mixed with mementos from the world of pop. A massive brass Buddha is flanked by equally enormous speakers; vintage cardboard cutouts of John, Paul, George and Ringo circa "Help!" are placed around a multiarmed statue of Vishnu. On a low table, there are crystals and an old RadioShack cassette recorder that Rubin uses to listen to demo tapes; a framed photo of Jim Morrison stares at a crystal ball. In Rubin's world, music and spirituality collide."That's why they call him a guru," Natalie Maines, the lead singer of the Dixie Chicks, explained to me in August, calling from her home in Los Angeles. Maines, who has been with the label since 1997, first worked with Rubin in 2004. "At first, I didn't know if I was down with all that guru stuff. I thought, We're making a record — I don't want to be converted. But Rick's spirituality has mostly to do with his own sense of self. When it comes to the music, he's so sure of his opinion that you become sure of his opinion, too. And isn't that what gurus do? They know how to say the right things at the right time and get the best out of you."Kusatsu, who has elaborate tattoos on both forearms and a match stuck behind his ear, puts the CD into Rubin's wireless system. This is the fourth male singer-songwriter with an acoustic guitar that Rubin has heard today. The music is heartfelt, spare, poetic. "There were a lot of girls in the audience," Kusatsu says as the track begins. Rubin closes his eyes and gently rocks back and forth. His hands are resting on his stomach, and he seems to be almost meditating. "Everything I do," Rubin told me earlier, "whether it's producing, or signing an artist, always starts with the songs. When I'm listening, I'm looking for a balance that you could see in anything. Whether it's a great painting or a building or a sunset. There's just a natural human element to a great song that feels immediately satisfying. I like the song to create a mood."He also seeks a melody. As a kid growing up in Lido Beach, on New York's Long Island, Rubin loved the Beatles. "I never really liked the Stones," he said. "Although, I loved the Monkees — they had all the best songwriters." Through his passion for the Beatles, he became fascinated by the seductive, addictive power of songs. From the first hip-hop records he produced for L L Cool J and the Beastie Boys, he insisted on classic song structure. "Before Def Jam, hip-hop records were typically really long, and they rarely had a hook," he continued. "Those songs didn't deliver in the way the Beatles did. By making our rap records sound more like pop songs, we changed the form. And we sold a lot of records." The Beastie Boys' "Licensed to Ill" (released in 1986) went on to sell what was then an astonishing four million plus records; earlier that year, "Walk This Way," which combined Run-D.M.C. and Aerosmith, was the first crossover rap single and revitalized Aerosmith's career. Rubin masterminded both.Whenever he agrees to produce an album, Rubin scrutinizes the songs before going into the studio. Currently, he is producing records for the hard rock band Metallica, the nerd power-pop band Weezer (it is part of his deal with Columbia that he can produce albums for acts that are not signed to the label) and the legendary Neil Diamond. At the moment, Metallica is touring in Europe, Weezer is writing a new batch of songs and Diamond has just started in the studio. Rubin works slowly — it can take him years to finish an album. "A lot of that is because of the songs," Rubin explained. "I try to get the artist to feel like they are writing songs for the ages rather than songs for an album. As they write, they come over and play the songs for me. For some reason, most people will write 10 songs and think, That's enough for a record, I'm done. When they play the songs for me, invariably the last two songs they've written are the best. I'll then say, 'You have two songs, go back and write eight more.' "His responses are instant, specific and constructively definitive. "He doesn't even take notes," Maines recalled. "He listens with his eyes closed, presses 'pause' and then says, 'You need another chorus,' or 'There isn't enough of a bridge.' He's really precise, and you go back to work." In the early Metallica sessions, Rubin has been exacting about different drum sounds. "Lars" — Ulrich, the drummer — "will play two things for me, and I'll say, 'This one is great and that one is terrible,' " Rubin recalled. "Lars will say: 'How do you know? They both sound good to me.' Well, I just know. The right sound reaches its hand out and finds its way. So much of what I do is just being present and listening for that right sound."Back in the library, the singer-songwriter's demo is ending. Rubin opens his eyes, blinks and says to Kusatsu: "We may have found one. Does he have any other songs I can hear?" While Kusatsu cues up the next sampling, Rubin texts an assistant on his BlackBerry. Within minutes, a chocolate protein drink is brought to him. As Rubin sips, he listens to the next track — a derivative, meandering song that drones like early Dylan without the lyric sophistication. With his eyes closed, Rubin begins to shake his head slowly. He looks disappointed. "And you wonder why people don't buy CDs anymore," Rubin says. "One song is great and the other is. . . . "His voice trails off. As a producer or the head of a small independent label, Rubin could afford to be very particular. But Columbia, which is the home of established stars like Bruce, Beyoncé, Bob, Billy and Barbra, desperately needs a jolt of the new. It has also been years since Rubin worked with an artist who is not yet established. Since producing System of a Down in 1998, he has focused on reinvigorating the careers of Johnny Cash and producing records for well-known musicians like Tom Petty, U2 and Justin Timberlake. One of the biggest challenges of the Columbia job is to find unsigned artists and help chart their course."I don't know about this guy," Rubin says diplomatically. Kusatsu nods. "I don't want to make a decision for the wrong reason," Rubin continues. "The most important thing we have to do now is get the art right. So many of the decisions at these companies have not been about the music. They sign artists for the wrong reasons — because they think somebody else wants them or if they need to have a record out by a certain date. That old way of doing things is obsolete, but luckily, fear is making the record companies less arrogant. They're more open to ideas. So, what's important now is to find music that's timeless. I still believe that if an artist gains the belief of the listener, then anything is possible." Rubin pauses and looks at Kusatsu. "What else can I hear?" he asks.This summer, Columbia Records began a program called Big Red. The company invited 20 college students from Harvard, Penn State and the University of Miami to work on various music projects. The interns concentrated mostly on the digital marketing and promotions departments in Columbia's offices in Midtown Manhattan, which are on Madison Avenue in a granite skyscraper designed by Philip Johnson.At the end of their paid internships, the students took part in focus groups that were closely observed by Steve Barnett, Rubin's co-head at the label, and Mark DiDia, whom Rubin brought in as head of operations, as well as by other Columbia executives. The focus groups may have been the real point of Big Red — Barnett and the New York executives, especially those who had been at Sony for years, wanted to try to take the pulse of the elusive music audience. "The Big Red focus groups were both depressing and informative, and they confirmed what I — and Rick — already knew," DiDia told me afterward. "The kids all said that a) no one listens to the radio anymore, b) they mostly steal music, but they don't consider it stealing, and c) they get most of their music from iTunes on their iPod. They told us that MySpace is over, it's just not cool anymore; Facebook is still cool, but that might not last much longer; and the biggest thing in their life is word of mouth. That's how they hear about music, bands, everything."Few of the kids knew that record companies participate only in the profits from records — that they derive no income from a band's merchandising or touring revenues. And they all thought that the Columbia logo stood for something prestigious, except in the hip-hop world. There it was deemed too commercial and corporate, but anywhere else it still represented a kind of impressive imprimatur. "Which was good news," DiDia continued. "It means we still have a brand that commands respect."His insecurity on this point reflects the trepidation that is consuming the music business. Seemingly overnight, the entire industry is collapsing. Sales figures on top-selling CDs are about 30 percent lower than they were a year ago, and the usual remedies aren't available. Since radio is no longer a place to push a single, record companies have turned to television and movies. "High School Musical," which originated with a Disney Channel television show, was the top-selling album of 2006, and not only has "American Idol," with its 30-million-plus audience, created best-selling singers like Kelly Clarkson and Chris Daughtry, but an appearance on the show can also boost sales. When Jennifer Lopez performed on "American Idol," it was considered worth noting that her album "Como Ama Una Mujer," already out for four weeks, dipped only 7 percent rather than falling by the usual double digits. More impressively, songs that are heard on popular shows like "Grey's Anatomy" become instantly desirable. When the Columbia artist Brandi Carlile's song "The Story" was featured on the ABC show, it posted a 15 percent jump in sales and was downloaded 19,000 times in one week. Before being heard on the show, the song had been available for nearly two months without any notable interest."Until very recently," Rubin told me over lunch at Hugo's, a health-conscious restaurant in Hollywood, "there were a handful of channels in the music business that the gatekeepers controlled. They were radio, Tower Records, MTV, certain mainstream press like Rolling Stone. That's how people found out about new things. Every record company in the industry was built to work that model. There was a time when if you had something that wasn't so good, through muscle and lack of other choices, you could push that not very good product through those channels. And that's how the music business functioned for 50 years. Well, the world has changed. And the industry has not."Steve Barnett, who is 55 and was the sole head of Columbia until he agreed to split his role with Rubin, was president of Epic Records, also a division of Sony, until 2005 and was well aware of the seismic shifts in the business. Barnett's corner office on the 25th floor of the Sony building is like a miniversion of the Hard Rock Cafe — autographed guitars belonging to Jeff Beck, Korn and Angus Young from AC/DC rest in their stands, and the walls are covered with vintage posters from the celebrated New York rock venue the Fillmore East. To the right of Barnett's large desk, above the framed Johnny Cash portrait, is a sign that reads, "Your Faith Needs to Be Greater Than Your Fear." "I have always believed that," Barnett told me in mid-August, "but it seems particularly relevant at the moment."Barnett, who is English, is a sharp counterpoint to Rubin. He lives with his wife and two of their four sons in Connecticut. He has neatly parted sandy brown hair, and on the day we met, he was dressed in a blue button-down shirt, tan slacks and Gucci loafers with dark socks. Barnett is polite, careful, aware of his corporate status. Yet he supported recruiting Rubin. "My wife's father is Dick Vermeil, the former coach of the St. Louis Rams," Barnett explained. "My sons would go to training camp, and when Marshall Faulk started playing for the team, they called me and said, 'Not only is this guy a great player, he makes everyone around him better.' Of course, the Rams went on to win the Super Bowl. I think Rick Rubin is our Marshall Faulk. I knew he would change the culture here."By the time Barnett first approached Rubin about coming to Columbia, Rubin had already decided that he would have nothing more to do with Columbia Records. This was because of the company's handling of the Rubin-produced Neil Diamond record "12 Songs" in 2005. Diamond was a hero of Rubin's, and he spent two years working on the album, persuading Diamond to record acoustically, something he hadn't done since the '60s."The CD debuted at No. 4," Rubin told me at Hugo's, still sounding upset. "It was the highest debut of Neil's career, off to a great start. But Columbia — it was some kind of corporate thing — had put spyware on the CD. That kept people from copying it, but it also somehow recorded information about whoever bought the record. The spyware became public knowledge, and people freaked out. There were some lawsuits filed, and the CD was recalled by Columbia. Literally pulled from stores. We came out on a Tuesday, by the following week the CD was not available. Columbia released it again in a month, but we never recovered. Neil was furious, and I vowed never to make another album with Columbia."But when Barnett flew out to Los Angeles to discuss the job with Rubin, Rubin was intrigued. "I felt like I could be a force for good," he explained. "In the past, I've tried to protect artists from the label, and now my job would also be to protect the label from itself. So many of the decisions at these companies are not about the music. They are shortsighted and desperate. For so long, the record industry had control. But now that monopoly has ended, they don't know what to do. I thought it would be an interesting challenge."As a kind of test, Rubin made some unusual demands. "Oh, God, I would have liked to have heard those negotiations," Natalie Maines exclaimed. "Rick knows what he's worth, and I can just hear him telling them, 'You might never see me, I may never wear shoes, you're not the boss of me.' And I'm sure they were saying, 'Whatever you want, Mr. Rubin.' I was surprised Sony made such a smart decision: someone who knows music should be running the company."In addition to his "never wearing a suit, never traveling, never going to an office" demands, Rubin also suggested (strongly) that Columbia become the first major record company to go green and abolish plastic jewel boxes for all its CDs. "They thought about it and agreed," Rubin said. "And that made me think they would listen to me. It was also a turning point in terms of how big my reach could be. In the past, I would not normally have access to that kind of sweeping change. At Columbia, I'm able to operate on a much larger scale."That was in late April. By August, Rubin still sounded optimistic, but a weariness had crept into his voice. "It's a big ship to turn around," he told me in the Hollywood Hills house. Simon and Garfunkel was playing in the background and Rubin was padding through the templelike rooms. "Columbia is stuck in the dark ages. I have great confidence that we will have the best record company in the industry, but the reality is, in today's world, we might have the best dinosaur. Until a new model is agreed upon and rolling, we can be the best at the existing paradigm, but until the paradigm shifts, it's going to be a declining business. This model is done."While Columbia has made some small changes in its organizational structure, it has not instigated the kind of extensive alterations that Rubin says are crucial to the salvation of the business. Barnett is promoting the division at Columbia that sells music directly to TV, so that a network or cable show can introduce an artist to audiences the way radio once did. At Rubin's suggestion, he has also set up a "word of mouth" department, which will probably employ some members of the Big Red focus group along with dozens of other 20-somethings. The "word of mouth" department will function as a publicity-promotional arm of the company, spreading commissioned buzz through chat rooms across the planet and through old-fashioned human interaction. "They tell all their friends about a band," Barnett explained. "Their job is to create interest."Rubin has a bigger idea. To combat the devastating impact of file sharing, he, like others in the music business (Doug Morris and Jimmy Iovine at Universal, for instance), says that the future of the industry is a subscription model, much like paid cable on a television set. "You would subscribe to music," Rubin explained, as he settled on the velvet couch in his library. "You'd pay, say, $19.95 a month, and the music will come anywhere you'd like. In this new world, there will be a virtual library that will be accessible from your car, from your cellphone, from your computer, from your television. Anywhere. The iPod will be obsolete, but there would be a Walkman-like device you could plug into speakers at home. You'll say, 'Today I want to listen to ... Simon and Garfunkel,' and there they are. The service can have demos, bootlegs, concerts, whatever context the artist wants to put out. And once that model is put into place, the industry will grow 10 times the size it is now."From Napster to the iPod, the music business has been wrong about how much it can dictate to its audience. "Steve Jobs understood Napster better than the record business did," David Geffen told me. "IPods made it easy for people to share music, and Apple took a big percentage of the business that once belonged to the record companies. The subscription model is the only way to save the music business. If music is easily available at a price of five or six dollars a month, then nobody will steal it."For this model to be effective, all the record companies will have to agree. "It's like getting the heads of the five families together," said Mark DiDia, referencing "The Godfather." "It will be very difficult, but what else are we going to do?"Rubin sees no other solution. "Either all the record companies will get together or the industry will fall apart and someone like Microsoft will come in and buy one of the companies at wholesale and do what needs to be done," he said. "The future technology companies will either wait for the record companies to smarten up, or they'll let them sink until they can buy them for 10 cents on the dollar and own the whole thing."Given the competition among record companies, the subscription model is bound to be tricky to organize and implement. One problem with iTunes is that, with some exceptions, all the songs are priced equally — a Justin Timberlake smash costs the same as an Al Jolson classic. Since a listener would, ideally, pay more for a Top 10 hit, that egalitarian system costs record companies potential millions of dollars. The opponents of the subscription model feel that making all music by all artists available for one flat fee will end up diminishing the overall revenue stream. They would also have to pool their talent, which is difficult for companies that have spent decades fighting over who signs with whom to accept. "There would have to be a new economic plan," Geffen explained. "And it would have to be equitable, depending on the popularity of the artists."Steve Barnett is nervous about the subscription model. "Smart people have told me if the subscription model is not done correctly," he said, "it will be the final nail in our coffin. I've heard both sides of the argument, and I'm not convinced it's the solution to our problems. Rick wants to be a hero immediately. In his mind, you flick a switch and it's done. It doesn't work like that."Barnett has other ideas, which he is discussing with Rubin. For instance, asking Columbia artists to give the record company up to 50 percent of their touring, merchandising and online revenue. This is unprecedented — even successful artists like the Dixie Chicks make a large percentage of their income from concerts and T-shirts. "Artists should never give that money up," Natalie Maines told me. "The companies are all scrambling because of the Internet, and they will screw the artist to meet their bottom line. I can't imagine Rick will go along with that."Rubin won't say — he'd rather concentrate on honing the new model for the industry. "I don't want to waste time," he said, sounding a little frustrated. "The existing people will either get smart, which is a question mark. Or new people will understand what a resource the music business is and change it without us." Rubin paused. "I don't want to watch that happen."One sunny day in June, Rick Rubin was trying to decide where the new Columbia Records headquarters in Los Angeles should be located. He may not want to go to an office himself, but he still recognizes the influence that a workplace can have on a staff. "I told the corporate Sony people that we have to get out of our old space in Los Angeles as quickly as possible," Rubin said as he disembarked from his Range Rover, which was parked outside a large, one-story former factory that now functions as a sound stage. "The Sony people thought I was insane. I'm also trying to get them to move out of their offices in New York. That space is tainted with the old way. And it's not an artist-friendly place — they search you when you walk in."Rubin, who was wearing, as usual, khaki cargo pants and a white T-shirt, was trailed by two architects who had flown in from Manhattan for this meeting. He discovered these architects, Dominic Kozerski and Enrico Bonetti, when he saw a chair they designed in a magazine layout. Rubin loves research. He's always on a quest to find just the right thing, whether it be a book or a building. Recently, he hunted down the brand of water that claims to have the greatest level of purity (Ice Age); he pored over architectural manuals to determine what kind of hinge would have been used in 1923 (for his house); and when Johnny Cash was ailing, Rubin discovered a kinesiologist whom Cash credited with extending his life. And so on. Rubin has always been passionate, even compulsive, about his interests."From the time I was 9 years old, I loved magic," Rubin recalled as he walked around the cavernous loftlike space. "I was an only child, and I think that had a big impact on me. I always had grown-up friends even though I was a little kid. I would take the train from Lido Beach into Manhattan, and I'd hang out in magic shops. When I was 14, I had magician friends who were 60. I learned a lot from them — I still think about magic all the time. I always think about how things work, the mechanics of a situation — that's the nature of being a magician."In high school, around 1980, Rubin started listening to a mix of heavy metal and punk rock. (He recalls buying the Germs' record "GI" and "Back in Black" by AC/DC on the same day.) "I saw the Ramones play every week," he said. "I was the only punk in my high school." Rubin paused. "I've always been an outsider. When I did magic, I was the only kid. When I worked with Johnny Cash, I was completely out of place in Nashville. And when I started Def Jam, I was the only white guy in the hip-hop world."Although Rubin's parents — his father was a shoe wholesaler, and "my mother's job was me" — wanted him to be a lawyer, he had other ideas. In 1983, while he was attending N.Y.U., he borrowed $5,000 from his parents and recorded "It's Yours" by T La Rock and Jazzy Jay, a 12-inch single that became a local dance hit. Rubin then invented a label, calling his company Def Jam ("Def" meaning great, and "Jam" meaning music), and ran the business out of his dorm room. "The clerk at the front desk handled all the shipping," Rubin recalled.Russell Simmons, who was then a hip-hop producer, loved "It's Yours" when he heard it on the radio. "I thought for sure that Rick was black," Simmons said. In 1984, a 16-year-old named L L Cool J (Ladies Love Cool James) sent a demo tape to Rubin's dorm room/Def Jam. "He was much better than anything else I heard," Rubin recalled. "And he still is. 'I Need a Beat,' L L's first single, was the real birth of Def Jam." Rubin did not release the track right away — he tightened up the structure, editing the rhymes so they more closely resembled verses in a song. The result is a spare, clean sound, rather than the endless repetitions of most early rap. "I thought the record would do well, and I asked Russell to be my partner at Def Jam. I did all the work from my dorm, and he did the promotion. Russell was five years older, and he was established. By myself, I was just a kid making records. He gave me credibility.""I Need a Beat" sold 100,000 copies, and in the next year, Def Jam released seven more 12-inch records, selling a total of about 300,000 units. The major labels had ignored rap, dismissing it as a regional fad, but they took notice of Def Jam. CBS offered Rubin and Simmons $600,000 to pick four acts a year, a kind of finder's fee. "I was 20," Rubin said. "I sent a Xerox of the check to my parents. That's when this stopped being a hobby. At that point, I wanted to live the life of an artist."By 1987, Rubin had already discovered the Beastie Boys, three upper-middle-class guys from New York City who could rap. The trio's anthemic hit, "(You Gotta) Fight for Your Right (to Party!)," which was produced by Rubin, was an instant classic: the rhythms of the words form a hook that circles and loops around your brain and will not leave. The Beasties' debut album, "Licensed to Ill," was the first rap album to go to No. 1 on the Billboard chart. "And we were still in the dorms," George Drakoulias, a successful producer who worked with Rubin for a decade, told me. "Rick didn't want to leave. He got college credits for running the record company. He stayed until he graduated. And by then, he and Russell were fighting over the direction of the company."Each had a different idea of which bands Def Jam should produce. The partnership fell apart during renegotiations for their contract with CBS. Simmons wanted to get the biggest monetary advance possible from CBS, while Rubin wanted to bet on Def Jam, take a small amount of money for the sake of independence and make most of the cash on the back-end profits. They couldn't agree, and Def Jam was split in two, an arrangement that took nearly three years to finalize.When things went sour, Rubin flew to Los Angeles to work on the soundtrack for the film "Less Than Zero." "I never really moved here," Rubin said now, still walking around the former factory space. "I never packed and moved. But I never left Los Angeles, even though I hadn't planned to stay." He lived in the Chateau Marmont for nine months and started a new record company, Def American. Rubin changed gears: he signed the hard rock bands Slayer and Danzig and gave a record deal to the misogynist comic Andrew Dice Clay. "At every stage of my career, there have always been people telling me not to do whatever it is that I'm doing," Rubin said. "After my initial success in rap, I started making rock records, and people said, 'Why would you do this?' I made a comedy album, and they said, 'Why this?' Now people ask me, 'Why do you want to do this Columbia job?' It's always the same answer: 'I've always liked doing the stuff that I like.' I just like good music or comedy or whatever it is, and now I have the chance to bring that to a big record company. I have no training, no technical skill — it's only this ability to listen and try to coach the artist to be the best they can from the perspective of a fan."The architects were still daydreaming about where to put the lobby and the conference room in the factory-turned-soundstage when Rubin suggested that they drive over to another potential site for the new Columbia offices. They piled into his Range Rover, which was being driven by Nino Molina, one of his assistants. In the front seat, Rubin turned on the satellite radio and Sinatra's "Fly Me to the Moon" flooded the car. "Where we are going could not be more different than this spot," Rubin told the architects. "In a way, this factory is like a cool, old vintage Mustang convertible and the next building we're seeing is a Rolls-Royce. In the end, they are both great and they probably cost the same money, but they are completely opposite in style." Rubin fiddled with the radio. "Every Picture Tells a Story" by Rod Stewart replaced Sinatra. "They couldn't be more different, but both work," Rubin continued.We drove east until we arrived at the former CAA building on Wilshire Boulevard in Beverly Hills. I. M. Pei designed this curvy, cream-colored travertine structure, and the most dominant feature of the space is its vast, soaring, three-story lobby. "This is a significant building," Rubin said. "How often do you get a chance to reinvent a landmark? Los Angeles doesn't have too many marquee buildings, and this is one of them."The two spaces — one raw and full of promise and the other established and perfect for reinvention — are a neat metaphor for Rubin's divergent music tastes. "I've always been attracted to both new stuff and older stuff," he said as he opened the door to a plush screening room. "When I came to Los Angeles and started producing more, that became clearer to me."At Def American, Rubin concentrated on a harder rock sound: Slayer's "Reign in Blood," which is considered to be a heavy metal classic, or the Geto Boys, whose rap song "Mind of a Lunatic" depicted vivid scenes of necrophilia and murder. "I just couldn't put out a record about sex with dead bodies and cutting off women's breasts," said David Geffen, whose company Geffen Records was the distributor of Def American. "I begged Rick not to put out the Geto Boys. In the end, I lost. He left and went to Warner Brothers."Although Rubin claims that Geffen fired him, he stood by the Geto Boys: "I thought the art was good. As a fan, the Geto Boys were thrilling in the same way that a horror movie might be thrilling." In 1993, Rubin saw that the word "def" was now in dictionaries, and he decided to change the name of his company. Inspired by a documentary he'd seen about the hippie movement, Rubin held a formal funeral for Def. "When advertisers and the fashion world co-opted the image of hippies, a group of the original hippies in San Francisco literally buried the image of the hippie," Rubin explained. "When 'def' went from street lingo to mainstream, it defeated its purpose."The funeral was lavish. The Rev. Al Sharpton was flown in from New York to deliver the eulogy, the Amazing Kreskin performed and Rubin purchased a cemetery plot and engraved headstone. The death of Def also marked a change in Rubin's career. He had never signed what he calls "grown-up artists," and he wanted to work with someone with enormous talent whose career had been eclipsed. "The first person I thought of was Johnny Cash," Rubin said now. "He was a little like this building — already a legend, but ripe for something different. I knew I could do something great with him."In many ways, the Cash phase of Rubin's life, which lasted 10 years and produced five albums, has overshadowed all his other accomplishments. Rubin had worked intensively with artists before. When he produced the Red Hot Chili Peppers in 1991, he helped reinvent their sound by persuading them to incorporate melody and a more lyrical approach in their songwriting. The Chili Peppers defined their music narrowly — as rap infused with funk — and Rubin imagined a different quality. "My job was to break down those boundaries," he explained. "No band has to fit into a little box. I saw the Chili Peppers as being like the Beach Boys in some ways. They represented Los Angeles, a place of dreams." Anthony Kiedis, the lead singer, showed Rubin his notebooks, and the producer homed in on a poem about drugs and alienation called "Under the Bridge." He persuaded Kiedis to set the words to music, and the resulting song was a career-altering hit for the band.Rubin installed the Peppers in a mansion in the Hollywood Hills that was rumored to be Harry Houdini's former home. It actually wasn't, but the house did have secret passageways, and the rumors of its history lingered. A studio was built, and the Peppers moved in with Rubin's personal chef at their service. As he always does when he produces a record, Rubin came and went. "I do not know how to work a board. I don't turn knobs. I have no technical ability whatsoever," he said. "But I'm there when they need me to be there. My primary asset is I know when I like something or not. It always comes down to taste. I'm not there to hold their hands and baby-sit, but I'm there for any key creative decisions."And yet it was different with Cash. While Cash was an excellent songwriter, Rubin handpicked rock songs like "Hurt" by Nine Inch Nails, "Personal Jesus" by Depeche Mode and "Rusty Cage" by Soundgarden for Cash to reinterpret. (He also suggested "Addicted to Love" by Robert Palmer, but that didn't work.) He was much more involved with every aspect of the production — from the choice of songs to the arrangements to the videos — than he had been with any other artist. Rubin and Cash also had a deep spiritual kinship: during the final months of Cash's life, they took communion together every day, even though Rubin, who was born Jewish and now sees himself as not having any specific religious orientation, should not be eligible for the holy sacraments. Even after Cash's death, Rubin would close his eyes and hear Cash's voice as he said the benediction. "It was like hearing a song that you love," Rubin said. "He was there with me."When Cash was in Los Angeles, he often stayed at Rubin's house. His bedroom, with its view of the city, was on the third floor, and Cash would take the elevator down to the recording studio in the basement. "I was always aware of how important Cash was," Rubin said. "But no one under 40 who didn't live in the South knew much about Johnny Cash besides a few hits and his name." What seems so clear now was not obvious when Rubin began working with Cash — it was risky to reinvent a living legend for a new generation.After Cash's death, Rubin was searching for a challenge with an even higher degree of difficulty, a greater test for his powers of listening. The Columbia job is a different kind of reclamation project, but Rubin knows that, just possibly, he could restore an entire institution to greatness. "I can imagine people coming up with brilliant, creative ideas here," Rubin told the architects as they finished their tour of the building. "But Sony has to agree. I'm not sure they realize that they are selling art. Right now they could be selling any product. That's why we have to move — we're in the art business."For the last two years, Rubin has lived in a house in Malibu that overlooks the ocean. In a way, this house is a return to his childhood in Lido Beach, where he spent his days near the water. "It's inspirational to live out here," Rubin said as he settled into a lounge chair with linen cushions facing the sea. "You feel the rhythm of the planet more keenly. I am never this aware of sunrise and sunset when I'm in town. The daily changes of nature at the beach can be deeply affecting."Rubin has many of his business meetings here now. The '70s architecture of the house is nondescript, but the views from every room are spectacular. There's an old, elaborately carved grand piano in the living room alongside an enormous four-poster brass bed with a striking white linen canopy. When I arrived, Amanda Santos, Rubin's fiancée, was having a private yoga session. While we sat on the terrace, a small Yorkshire terrier named Henry ran between the living room and Rubin's lap. Despite a state-of-the-art sound system, there was no music playing. Only the sound of the waves.All this Zen calm notwithstanding, Rubin, who was drinking ginger tea, was working. "Do you know about Paul Potts?" he asked as he went to the kitchen to get his laptop. "You have to see this. It totally blew my mind." Rubin found the proper link and turned the screen to face me. The clip was from a British show called "Britain's Got Talent," a version of "American Idol." Despite its popularity, Rubin has never seen "American Idol," and he had never heard of Simon Cowell, who is a judge on both programs."This is insane," Rubin said enthusiastically as the clip began. In the video, an ordinary-looking middle-aged man waited nervously backstage. When he faced the judges, he told them he worked at a mobile-phone store and wanted to sing opera. The studio audience looked annoyed — they clearly wanted to hear a pop song — and the judges were cold and dismissive. No one expected anything remarkable from this dull-looking, forgettable guy.But then Paul Potts sang — "Nessun dorma" from "Turandot." He had an improbably beautiful voice. "Where does that come from?" Rubin said as he watched. Tears were rolling down his cheeks. "I can't look at this without crying," he said. "His voice is so beautiful." When Potts finished his song, Cowell said, "I thought you were absolutely fantastic." The studio audience roared with approval, and Potts beamed."It's August now — that show was eight weeks ago," Rubin said. "In England, Paul Potts is already gigantic, but we are going to launch him in America. This just blew my mind."No one could have predicted that one of the first new Columbia artists to excite Rick Rubin would have been a would-be opera singer from a televised talent contest. "I certainly didn't expect his response to be so positive," said Steve Barnett, who originally brought Paul Potts to Rubin's attention. "I was surprised and pleased that he wanted to jump on it."Rubin has an immediate plan for Potts — he wants to test the powers of his "word of mouth" department. "I want to see if we can create interest without there being a record to buy," he said. "I've told our whole staff to send it to everyone, to tell everyone, to mention it everywhere. I want to get Paul Potts out to the world." Rubin stopped for a moment. "Although, if someone tells you how great this is, it's not as moving. It's the element of surprise that makes you interested in Paul Potts: he looks so bland, and then he sings so well. If you expect him to be great, will the clip still be great?"The question cannot be answered. A word-of-mouth campaign, like so many possible remedies for the ills of the record business, feels forced. "I just don't know how else people will see Paul Potts," Rubin said. "And I'm really glad I saw him." He paused and looked out at the surf. "I know this sounds hard to believe, but I never had any expectations of success," he said finally. "I knew what I liked, and I didn't really care if anyone else liked it. I still never assume that anyone will like anything. But I can't imagine that they won't, either.""Sam Cooke built this," Neil Diamond said as he greeted Rubin at ArchAngel Studios in West Hollywood on a gray afternoon in late July. "I bought the place around 30 years ago. It's not open to the public, but I let Rick use it sometimes."Rubin smiled. "I think the Doors made their first demo here," he said as he followed Diamond down the hall, past the walls of gold and platinum Neil Diamond records, past the framed album covers and into a glass recording studio. "And now, Neil."For the past two weeks, Rubin and Diamond had been working on new material, and Diamond wanted Rubin to hear some songs that were near completion. "You know, initially I stalked Neil," Rubin said as an engineer prepared the first track. "Yes," said Diamond, who is trim and was wearing a suede baseball hat, dark shirt and jeans. "At first, it was a little scary — I didn't know what to make of it."A classic Neil Diamond song about the renewing power of a relationship boomed from the speakers. Diamond looked down, a little self-conscious. Rubin, eyes closed, was seated at the engineer's console with his arms resting lightly on the mixing board. When the song ended, Rubin paused, opened his eyes and said: "You really caught a good mood on that. It lived for the first time." Diamond nodded. They discussed the merits of adding strings or changing the structure so that the bridge didn't sound so much like a chorus. "Some strings might inspire you," Rubin said. "And maybe some amplification near the end. It needs a little polish."Diamond agreed, and four more tracks were played for Rubin's opinion. He was encouraging and specific — "a little percussion element could go here," he said. Or, "Let's shorten that rolling piano." After about an hour, Rubin hugged Diamond goodbye. They agreed to reconnect in a month, after he'd written some more songs. "I'll settle in without distraction," Diamond promised. "And then I'll be in touch."Rubin headed back to his Range Rover. In the car, he said he had some live footage of the Gossip that he wanted to show me. "I saw the group at the Troubadour, and they blew my mind," he said. "It was the best show I've seen in five years. Afterward, I met with the band. They felt stressed, and they were having trouble writing songs. The energy in the room when they were performing was so intense, and I'm not even sure how we'd get it to feel like that in the studio. So we decided to record a live show during their European tour, and we're going to release a DVD of the live album as their first release."Rubin looked pleased. Beth Ditto, the lead singer of the Gossip, is exactly what he has been looking for since he took this job at Columbia: she is an outsize personality in an outsize body with a Joplin-esque, bluesy voice. Ditto is the kind of artist Rubin loves — unique, ambitious and open to guidance. "For a band like the Gossip," Rubin continued, "the support of a record company like Columbia is still really important. I grew up in the independent music business, and you still really need the muscle of the majors. A record company call can still get you heard like nobody else."Rubin paused. "That's the magic of the business," he said. "It's all doom and gloom, but then you go to a Gossip show or hear Neil in the studio and you remember that too many people make and love music for it to ever die. It will never be over. The music will outlast us all."GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Sept. 4 — The eight women visited Long Island this summer along with vacationing families and other business travelers, staying in hotels and motels in commercial strips in middle-class suburbs like East Garden City, Hicksville and Woodbury. Their ages ranged from 20 to 32.Three had come all the way from the San Francisco Bay area, one from Miami. Two lived less than 60 miles away, in Newark and Elizabeth, N.J. and two even closer, in Brooklyn.All eight were arrested on prostitution charges here, snared in a new sting operation by the Nassau County police that focuses on Craigslist.org, the ubiquitous Web site best known for its employment and for-sale advertisements but which law enforcement officials say is increasingly also used to trade sex for money.Nassau County has made more than 70 arrests since it began focusing on Craigslist last year, one of numerous crackdowns by vice squads from Hawaii to New Hampshire that have lately been monitoring the Web site closely, sometimes placing decoy ads to catch would-be customers."Craigslist has become the high-tech 42nd Street, where much of the solicitation takes place now," said Richard McGuire, Nassau's assistant chief of detectives. "Technology has worked its way into every profession, including the oldest."Augmenting traditional surveillance of street walkers, massage parlors, brothels and escort services, investigators are now hunching over computer screens to scroll through provocative cyber-ads in search of solicitors.In July raids, the sheriff of Cook County, Ill., rounded up 43 women working on the streets — and 60 who advertised on Craigslist. In Seattle, a covert police ad on Craigslist in November resulted in the arrests of 71 men, including a bank officer, a construction worker and a surgeon.And in Jacksonville, Fla., a single ad the police posted for three days in August netted 33 men, among them a teacher and a firefighter. "We got hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of hits" in phone calls and e-mail messages, said John P. Hartley, the assistant chief sheriff there.Sex and the Internet have been intertwined almost since the first Web site, but the authorities say that prostitution is flourishing online as never before. And while prostitutes also advertise on other sites, the police here and across the country say Craigslist is by far the favorite. On one recent day, for example, some 9,000 listings were added to the site's "Erotic Services" category in the New York region alone: Most offered massage and escorts, often hinting at more.Law enforcement officials have accused Craigslist of enabling prostitution. But the company's president, Jim Buckmaster, said its 24-member staff cannot patrol the multitude of constantly changing listings — some 20 million per month — and counts on viewers to flag objectionable ads, which are promptly removed."We do not want illegal activity on the site," he said. Asked whether the company supported the police's placing decoy ads on Craigslist, Mr. Buckmaster said: "We don't comment on the specifics" of law enforcement.Craig Newmark, the site's founder and chairman, deferred all questions to Mr. Buckmaster.The police have also occasionally turned to Craigslist to trace stolen goods offered for sale or make drug arrests. In June, in Nassau, spotting code words like "snow" or "skiing" to refer to cocaine, they set up a sting with an undercover officer to arrest a man who advertised  cocaine for sex.Experts say that under the federal Communications Decency Act of 1996, the ads are legal and Web site owners are exempt from responsibility for content posted by users. Craigslist, for example, last fall won dismissal of a suit that alleged housing discrimination in ads posted on its Web site. "You hold the speaker liable, not the soapbox," explained Kurt B. Opsahl, senior staff attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital civil liberties group based in San Francisco.While Mr. Buckmaster said Craigslist was no different from old-media publications that have long carried sex-oriented ads, law enforcement officials say its scope and format are especially useful to the sex industry. With listings for some 450 cities around the world, Craigslist claims to have 25 million users and 8 billion page views a month. Posting advertisements, except those in the employment and some housing categories, is free, as is responding to them by e-mail."The Internet has allowed people to make contact in a way not possible before," said Ronald Weitzer, a sociology professor at George Washington University and a researcher on prostitution. "Ten years ago this was not happening at all."As Nassau's district attorney, Kathleen Rice, said of Craigslist: "It's as easy as it gets."Tracy Quan, a member of the advocacy group Prostitutes of New York and author of the autobiographical novel "Diary of a Married Call Girl" (Harper Perennial, 2006), acknowledged that "the Internet became a virtual street for people in the sex industry," but said that "the police are as inventive and as wily as sex workers are." She said that the stings amounted to entrapment of consenting adults, and that "it seems like an enormous waste of time resources by authoritarian busybodies."The police say that Craigslist has changed prostitution's patterns, with people roaming the country, setting up shop for a week or two in hotels — often near airports — where they use laptop computers and cellphones to arrange encounters for hundreds of dollars, then moving on to their next location."They like to move around, that's for sure," said Assistant Chief McGuire. "They're flying in from out of state because there is money here" on Long Island.In Westchester County this spring, the police in Greenburgh, Rye, Rye Brook and Elmsford formed a joint task force to investigate ads on  Craigslist, resulting in 30 arrests. Some of those arrested were out-of-town prostitutes who booked numerous dates in advance, then whisked in for a busy couple of days, the police said.In Sandpoint, Idaho, population 8,105, R. Mark Lockwood, the police chief, said that an arrest this summer involving Craigslist "was probably our first prostitution case since World War II."Amid the police crackdown, in a game of electronic cat-and-mouse, the authorities say that Web site users who get wind of enforcement sometimes post warnings to thwart investigators.The Craigslist modus operandi provides mobility, helping prostitutes keep a few steps ahead of the law, law enforcement officials say. It also affords a degree of anonymity — if they are caught, being away from home makes an arrest less embarrassing.Pimps have also adapted to the computer age, the police say. Among those arrested here in August, on charges of promoting prostitution, was Victor Teixeira, 31, of Mineola. "He was managing the technology of it," said Assistant Chief McGuire. "He recruited the women on the Internet. He put different ads up sometimes three times day. He would screen the calls and make the appointments."Mr. Teixeira pleaded not guilty; he could not be reached for comment.Most of the arrests are on misdemeanor charges, with convictions resulting in fines of a few hundred dollars; only repeat offenders risk jail time. The real penalties are the disruption of business, the cost of lawyers and the seizures of computers and cash — as much as several thousand dollars at a time. The police say the focus on such misconduct is worthwhile because prostitution is often linked to other crimes involving drugs, weapons, physical abuse and exploitation of minors and immigrants.Law enforcement officials ask why Craigslist even includes Erotic Services among its 191 categories. Mr. Buckmaster, the company president, said the site created that category "at the request of our users" for legitimate massage, escorts and exotic dancers. In an e-mail interview, he said that the police had praised the company's cooperation, though he did not give examples.Despite police complaints that Craigslist facilitates prostitution, some experts say the Web site also aids enforcement."Craigslist is a very open site, and it leaves digital footprints," said Leslie A. Harris, president of the nonprofit Center for Democracy and Technology. "It makes it easier for the police."WASHINGTON, Sept. 2  — Would cheaper money relieve the anxiety in financial markets about shoddy mortgages and declining home prices?Even as the chairman of the Federal Reserve vowed on Friday to act "as needed" to keep the economy from sliding into  recession, some analysts and even some policy makers caution that the central bank's main tool may be ill-suited to the problem it faces.Like horses that rear up at the sight of a rattlesnake, investors who financed commercial lending have become spooked as the housing bubble turned to a bust and foreclosure rates on subprime mortgages began to skyrocket.Money for subprime mortgages, for people with weak credit, has already evaporated. And the paralysis has spread to more traditional home loans, business loans and corporate borrowing for billion-dollar leveraged buyouts.But the Fed's main weapon for restoring confidence  — reducing its benchmark federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks to 5 percent or less, from 5.25 percent now  — would have little effect on fears about credit quality."The reason there isn't a market for these credits is that people don't know what price they should be trading at," said Edward E. Leamer, professor of management at the University of California,   Los Angeles, who presented a paper during the  weekend at the Federal Reserve's symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyo. "That's not going to be affected by a small change in the federal funds rate."The meltdown in credit markets permeated discussions at Jackson Hole. In late-night chats over Cognac, European central bankers and American hedge fund managers swapped stories about collapsing "conduits," "special investment vehicles" and "SIV-lites"  — entities that banks and private equity funds use to bundle and sell loans as securities.The talk was not idle.Over the next six weeks, more than $1 trillion worth of commercial debt is set to come due and will need to be refinanced, more than five times as much as came due since the disruption began one month ago.Fed officials say most of that $1 trillion in maturing debt has nothing to do with subprime loans and any other kind of mortgages. It includes credit card debt, car loans and business loans.One official compared the load of maturing debt to a pig in a python: a bulge that would be take time to digest, but could eventually be absorbed without huge problems.Much of the digesting will be by big banks, which provided backup credit lines for their mortgage lenders.But David Hale, a longtime Fed watcher, noted that at least two German banks needed to be rescued last month because of their exposure to American mortgages. Chances are very high that there will be more, Mr. Hale said.Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said on Friday that the central bank was ready to act if the turmoil in credit markets threatened to undermine the overall economy.On Wall Street, investors welcomed Mr. Bernanke's remarks as a signal that the Fed would probably lower rates at its policy meeting on Sept. 18. Many economists and hedge fund managers said the move would indeed shore up confidence.More important, supporters of a lower fed funds rate say it could prevent the huge looming losses from bad mortgages from expanding into even bigger losses on all kinds of loans."It would be a very powerful signal," said Lewis Alexander, chief economist at Citigroup. "A critical determinant of housing prices is employment. If you think employment is going to weaken, your assumption for housing and for the ripple effects through the economy will be very different."But economists are still debating whether the Fed created the housing bubble, and thus set the stage for the current  bust, when it slashed interest rates to cushion the shock of a bursting stock market bubble.John B. Taylor, a former under secretary of the Treasury under President George W. Bush, argued over the  weekend that the Fed "would have avoided much of the housing boom" if it had followed a more traditional monetary policy between 2001 and 2006.But other experts attributed the real estate frenzy to other factors, in particular to an explosion of exotic mortgages that allowed people with low incomes and weak credit to buy houses with no money down and deceptively low initial payments."It's too easy to blame the Fed," said Robert J. Shiller of Yale, who sounded early alarms about both the stock market and housing bubbles. Mr. Shiller blamed mass psychology for the bubble, an almost ubiquitous conviction that housing prices would simply keep climbing at double-digit rates.Mr. Bernanke took pains on Friday to warn  that the Fed did not want to bail out either home buyers or investors who had made bad investments. Fed officials have long cringed at the idea of a "Greenspan put," the idea that former chairman Alan Greenspan could be counted on to rescue financial markets in times of turmoil by cutting rates.Mr. Bernanke also made it clear he now worries that the downturn in housing and mortgage lending could pose a danger to the broader economy. Until recently, he had described the decline in residential real estate as a necessary "adjustment" to speculative excesses in one sector of the economy."Housing prices should not have a special role in the conduct of monetary policy," said Frederic S. Mishkin, a Fed governor, in a speech at the Jackson Hole conference. "On the other hand, central banks should be actively prepared to deal with situations as they arise. You want to be prepared."Reducing the fed funds rate would not necessarily rescue people who took on far more debt than they could afford. Rather, Fed officials appear to hope that the move would stimulate consumption and send a reassuring signal to investors that the Fed is prepared to prevent a full recession.But the last few years suggest that the overnight fed funds rate has a weak relationship to housing.Long-term interest rates, which determine mortgage rates, rose slightly before the central bank began raising the overnight rate in June 2004. But long-term rates and mortgage rates soon declined and stayed low throughout the time that the Fed quintupled its overnight rate to 5.25 percent.The housing market began spiraling down in 2006, but primarily because houses had appreciated so much faster than household incomes and had become increasingly unaffordable.But given the collapse of confidence in the credit quality for subprime and near-prime mortgages, which accounted for about one-quarter of mortgage originations as recently as  May, few forecasters expect a quick recovery  — and certainly not because of a slightly lower overnight lending rate.
