YOU think differently about positioning, customers and how you see the marketplace in general. That's why you have started your own entrepreneurial business or are succeeding inside one.Why not use the same think-differently approach to cutting costs?That is the takeaway message of "The Small Business Savings Plan" (Kaplan Publishing, $21.95) by Timothy R. Gase, who is a co-owner of a small business himself, Peerless Saw in Groveport, Ohio.While Mr. Gase spends far more time than he should telling you to turn off unnecessary lights and urging you to use refurbished toner cartridges for your printer, he also offers many intriguing ideas:¶Offering employees an incentive not to accept your company health benefits. It costs the average company $10,000 a year to provide health benefits for an employee. Employees who are married to someone who has family coverage elsewhere, might be willing to accept a $2,000 bonus not to sign on for health benefits from your company.¶Share a percentage of the money an employee saves you. Set the bar high, Mr. Gase says. For example, for purchasing managers to start receiving the bonus, you might require that they have saved the company a minimum of 150 percent of their salary.¶To make cost-cutting a matter of routine, ask "what would we do differently if the recession hit tomorrow." And then start doing those things today.CHARGE MORE Saving money is the classic way of increasing your company's return on investment.After all R.O.I. is computed by using a very simple formula: Revenue divided by Investment equals R.O.I.And, obviously, if you can get the same sales with less investment, your R.O.I. increases —  that is why there is such emphasis on cutting costs.But what is sometimes forgotten is that you can increase R.O.I. another way. If the numerator (revenue) increases, while your investment remains the same, R.O.I. also goes up.How do you do that? Charge more.Writing in businessknowhow.com, Kendall SummerHawk says you may be able to raise your prices.How can you know for sure? She offers five "clues." For example: "You have no time to market because you're too busy serving clients. No ifs, ands, or buts, if you're busy then it's time to raise your fees. Be prepared to lose the bottom 10 percent of your clients, which is a good thing."Ms. SummerHawk adds that if you are hearing "yes" from more than 80 percent of the prospects you pitch, it "means you're a bargain and they know it. Now, I don't know about you, but I would much prefer to take advantage of a bargain, not be the bargain being taken advantage of."WALTER MITTY LIVES If you are thinking of chucking your corporate job to start a business, you might be wondering if it is possible to tap your retirement accounts penalty-free as a source of funding.The answer, writes Karen E. Klein  in Business Week online is yes — if you are extremely careful.You first need to rollover your existing I.R.A. and/or 401(k) into an I.R.A. held by a pension trustee firm that gives you the choice of investing your retirement funds in a business you are starting."The large brokerage houses, such as Fidelity and Schwab, won't allow you to invest in your own business," Ms. Klein writes.However, she says there are "boutique pension trustees," that "specialize in this kind of transaction — for a sizeable fee."Those fees could be as high as $5,000 to $7,000 to handle a $250,000 to $300,000 rollover.The good news is using your own money is a relatively cheap way of raising capital.The bad news is twofold: Mishandle the rollover, and the I.R.S. will hit you with a 10 percent early-withdrawal tax, in addition to treating the distribution as ordinary income.And you are betting your retirement money on what is by definition a risky idea — starting a business.LAST CALL Imagine Dilbert (without the art), combined with the musings of Stanley Bing when he is  funny  and you have the blog BigPictureSmallOffice .Or as the anonymous author puts it, welcome to "the world of big business and small minds. It is the world of paradigms and paranoids."PHOENIX  — The summer travel season is under way,  and so many planes are expected to be full that, if you are bumped, you could end up waiting days for a seat on another flight to the same destination.The number of fliers bumped against their will is expected to reach a high for the decade this year.True, those travelers — about 56,000 of them —  still represent only a small fraction of all passengers. But the increasing difficulty of rebooking bumped passengers has made the experience more maddening for fliers, and for the airline workers who deliver the bad news.A look behind the scenes of US Airways at the widespread practice of airline overbooking shows the industry's struggle to fill every possible seat, including those left empty by the millions of passengers who buy a ticket but then do not show up.The effort at times pits a group of young math whizzes at the airline against battle-tested gate agents, who are often skeptical of the complex computer models used to predict no-shows and to overbook flights.Some agents even take matters into their own hands, creating phantom reservations  — Mickey Mouse is a favorite passenger name, for example — to keep the math nerds at headquarters from overbooking a flight."It's a little bit of black art," said Wallace Beall, senior director for revenue analysis who oversees overbooking at US Airways.Overbooking is one of many airline practices that are complicated by crowded planes. Airlines are running closer to capacity than at any point during the jet age  —  an expected 85 percent or so full this summer, which means all the seats on popular routes will be taken.Airlines, of course, overbook to avoid losing billions of dollars because of empty seats. Inevitably, though, they guess wrong on some flights and too many people arrive at the gate.Vouchers for free flights have long been used to convince enough passengers to stand aside and wait for the next flight. But now, more people are refusing the voucher — which can vary from a small dollar amount to a round-trip ticket anywhere an airline flies (people who are involuntarily bumped get up to $400 for their troubles).The reason is that fliers have figured out that with flights full, there are fewer and fewer seats to be bumped to."I usually volunteer to be bumped," said Pamela Ingram, a consultant who travels most weeks from her home in Binghamton, N.Y., and loves collecting airline vouchers for leisure travel."But not lately," she said. "It's a different game. The wait can be days."The number of people bumped involuntarily  —  those refusing the voucher  —  rose 23 percent last year and kept rising in the first quarter of this year.The ranks of all bumped passengers last year, 676,408, was small — unless you were one of them — compared with the 555 million total airline passengers.Airline workers, of course, do not like bumping, either."It's embarrassing," said Brigid Mullin, a gate agent for US Airways here. On one or two flights a day, Ms. Mullin is left to explain to passengers that US Airways sold more tickets than it has seats on the plane."People are going to yell," Ms. Mullin said.Mr. Beall, the US Airways official, said, "Employees call in sick because they don't want to deal with overbookings."Other coping strategies by agents include entering phantom bookings  — in addition to Mickey Mouse, they occasionally enter the name of W. Douglas Parker, the chief executive at US Airways —  to keep a flight from being oversold.But phantom bookings later show up in the computer system as, you guessed it, a no-show, and the system then will overbook the next flight even more."We call it the death spiral," said Mr. Beall's boss, Thomas Trenga, vice president for revenue management at US Airways.The airline has  repeatedly told gate agents not to enter phantom bookings since US Airways and America West Airlines merged in the fall of 2005.At an employee meeting just after the merger, Mr. Parker was confronted about the issue by John Martino, then a gate agent in Boston. "You know you're going to be yelled and screamed at to the point you have to call the police," he said.Mr. Parker replied: "Why do we do so much of it?  We will overbook as long as we allow people to no-show for flights; 7 to 8  percent of our customers are no-shows."At some airlines, the no-show rate is higher, as passengers take advantage of refundable tickets, which include those bought by business travelers at the last minute.The potential impact is huge. US Airways had revenue of $11.56 billion last year and would have lost out on $1 billion or more of that had it not overbooked, the company said.And with profit of just $304 million for the year, and with other airlines operating on similarly slim margins, "we'd probably all go bankrupt" without overbooking, Mr. Trenga said.That said, Mr. Trenga acknowledged, "People view overbooking as something not on the up-and-up."So, while he tells his neighbors that he oversees pricing at US Airways, "I conveniently forget to mention the overbooking part." US Airways rates in the middle of the industry pack on bumping passengers.Of course, airlines could end no-shows and the need for overbooking by selling only nonrefundable tickets. JetBlue Airways does that, and no-shows lose the value of their ticket.But business travelers, who pay the most, want refundable tickets and even JetBlue is considering offering them.The revenue lost by leaving a seat empty  —  a spoiled seat, in industry parlance  —  typically exceeds the cost of compensating a bumped passenger. Only fear of angering people keeps airlines from overbooking more.No-show rates used to be much higher  —  20 percent or more for many airlines. Many travel agent reservations were unreliable. Other bookings were duplicates.At US Airways, into the late 1990s, the no-show rate was about 14 percent, Mr. Beall said, and its ability to overbook accurately suffered. "We were stuck in an overbooking quagmire," he said. "We had scant credibility" with gate agents.But even after cleaning up its reservations and reducing no-shows to 7 percent to 8 percent, no-shows still vary widely among flights.Mr. Beall entrusts the overbooking to people like Sherri Owens, 22. An economics graduate from the University of Virginia, she joined US Airways a little more than a year ago. Like nearly 50 other analysts, Ms. Owens uses software that scans the past no-show rate on flights, breaking it down among as many as 26 fare levels.People paying the cheapest fares, which are typically nonrefundable, show up; those paying the most, usually refundable fares for business travelers, are more frequently no-shows. Midwesterners show up. People leaving Las Vegas often do not.The software then takes note of the fares people are booking on a coming flight and estimates the number that will not show. Airlines overbook more aggressively early in the day, knowing they can find seats for those bumped as the day goes on.Ms. Owens, along with her main job of setting various fares on a single flight, tweaks the overbooking numbers. Then, each week a report comes out that lists all US Airways flights that bumped 10 or more people. The analyst with the most flights on the report is stuck with a stuffed toy crow for the week. And occasionally they hear from angry airport workers who handled the bumping.The week of April 23, for instance, 18 flights had 10 or more passengers bumped. Half those flights had fewer seats than were sold because of weather-related weight restrictions or substitution of a smaller plane, including a flight from Phoenix to Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, that left 37 passengers behind.On others the airline guessed wrong. A Phoenix-to-San Diego flight, normally with 10 percent of passengers not showing, overbooked by 17 percent. Only 3 percent no-showed. Thirteen people were left behind.The following week, just 11 flights made the double-digit list. A Las Vegas-to-Boston flight left 10 behind, including 8 involuntary bumps, when it was overbooked by 13 percent, despite the computer system's listing past flights with only 5 percent no-shows.Analysts are supposed to explain such failures, but the comments offered for that flight "are erroneous," Mr. Beall said, scanning the report. "In a perfect world, a manager would force the analyst to come back" and explain. Time-pressed, however, he said, "I can't guarantee that would happen."The analysts are somewhat insulated. Ms. Owens said she had never personally been bumped from a flight. Airport workers regularly ask her to book fewer people on some flights."It's something we look into," she said. "They remember the flights that oversold and not the five that went out fine. We have all the data in front of us. Normally I compromise between what they're asking and what I would like it at."When employees like Ms. Owens become proficient at the art of overbooking, they tend to leave for other jobs, her boss, Mr. Beall,  said."They used to stay for two to two and one half years. Now they stay for one and one half. It takes three months to train them," he said."In-depth knowledge is fleeting."Hannah Kain, a small-business owner in Fremont, Calif., started her packaging services business, ALOM Technologies, in 1997 with a $250,000 Small Business Administration loan. In 2000, her 70-employee company was singled out as an entrepreneurial success by the agency, complete with a ceremony in San Francisco.But in 2003, when she lost a government contract to package and distribute informational CDs to military bases around the world, she didn't bother to turn to the S.B.A. for help."I'm not so sure about the overall competency level and the ability to follow through," Ms. Kain said. "The best you can expect is a list of government agencies you can contact."Her assessment reflects a growing frustration among many small-business owners with the agency.Over the last five decades, the S.B.A. has been there to propel the likes of Federal Express, Intel,  Staples and thousands of lesser-known small businesses. But advocates say recent policy changes and severe budget and staffing cuts in the last six years have left the agency unable to fulfill its mission to provide programs and services to the nation's 25 million small companies, which the agency defines as businesses with 500 or fewer workers. Since 2001, the agency's budget has been sliced nearly in half, to $464 million in the proposed 2008 budget. Staff cuts have been almost as deep, with the agency losing 31 percent of its work force.Nowhere has the impact of these changes been felt more than in the S.B.A.'s primary loan program for small businesses, known as 7(a).Since the 2005 fiscal year, the agency has cut funding to the program and restored an earlier, more costly fee structure for borrowers.  Now a borrower pays a minimum of $2,000 in upfront fees for the smaller loans up to $150,000, a rise from $1,000 before. For larger loans up to $700,000, the fee now is 3 percent, up from 2.5 percent before. For loans above $700,000, the fee remains unchanged at 3.5 percent.Even with the higher fees, the agency says,  the loans have easier credit terms and longer repayment periods than those typically available at commercial banks. But many small-business advocates say that is a moot point as many small businesses cannot even pull together the amounts to cover the fees.The S.B.A. has also proposed raising the fees in its microloan program, which can be used for construction and expansion of facilities. Together these loans totaled $20 billion in 2006, according to the S.B.A.While fees for the loans have increased, the average size of the loans under the 7(a) and microloan programs has decreased 25 percent, to $188,878 in fiscal year 2006, from $252,314 in fiscal year 2001, according to data from the S.B.A. The total number of loans has more than doubled, however.The S.B.A. said that part of the reason that the average amount of the loans has dropped is because a number of banks use a process called S.B.A. Express. For it, banks use their own documents and need less interaction with the agency. The S.B.A guarantees only 50 percent of these loans instead of the 75 percent to 85 percent on larger loans.The increased fees for the loans may have had another effect. The number of banks participating  has dropped by nearly half, to 2,751 in fiscal 2006, from 5,228 in fiscal 2001, according to the National Small Business Association in Washington. The association said some of the drop may reflect bank consolidation, but fees and other changes in the 7(a) program had the biggest impact.Because of the higher fees, many  entrepreneurs have turned to a growing credit card market aimed at small-business owners. A survey by the association found that the overwhelming majority of small businesses use credit cards for their financing instead of S.B.A or other bank loans —  meaning that the interest rate paid can be as much as 10 percentage points more than a conventional loan."The S.B.A. in many ways is hurting small business by increasing these fees," said Marilyn Landis, owner of Basic Business Concepts, a small company in Pittsburgh,  who relies on credit cards for most of her financing. "The decrease in the size of the loans is certainly a detriment to small companies — it's barely enough to get a company started and certainly not enough to grow one." Ms. Landis is vice chairwoman of the National Small Business Association.Even more than the higher fees, reduced staffing levels at the agency have had a profound effect on small business, advocates say.Smaller staffs have contributed to a loss of institutional knowledge at the S.B.A. and many people are in jobs in which they lack the necessary training, said Morris A. Little, president of B&W Solutions, a human resource management firm in Oxon Hill, Md. Mr. Little is chairman of the board of the National Black Chamber of Commerce."You have people that can't even explain S.B.A. programs to you," Mr. Little said. "It's frustrating, and after a while you don't even bother asking."The biggest area where the staff cutbacks are hurting small business is in helping gain access to $400 billion in federal contracting, Mr. Little and others said.According to a study by Congressional Democrats last year, small businesses lost more than $12 billion in contracts because of miscoding: the contracts went instead to giant corporations like Wal-Mart and Google, among others.Staffing was cited as a main factor because the agency does not have enough people to ensure that federal agencies meet their legally mandated goal of providing 23 percent of their contracts to small businesses.Over all, the number of full-time S.B.A. employees has dropped 29 percent since 2001, to 2,047 from 2,863, according to the agency. The agency has 54 people who oversee federal contracting, fewer than it had in 1993 when  federal contracting was half its current size. A result is that small businesses got just 19 percent of federal contracts in 2006, according to Eagle Eye, a research firm in Fairfax, Va. And that 19 percent includes large corporations coded as small businesses, the firm said, so the actual number could be smaller.Steven C. Preston, who became the S.B.A. administrator last June, acknowledges that budget and staffing cuts  have hurt, but he still sees the agency's loan programs and services as vital to small business.To address budget shortfalls and staffing cuts, Mr. Preston asked Congress for $464 million for the 2008 fiscal year. The budget request is 5 percent higher than the approved budget for fiscal 2006. For the 2007 fiscal year, the agency operated without an approved budget, under a continuing resolution that provided the same  funding as the year before.Mr. Preston said the agency was committed to hiring more employees, including procurement-contracting representatives who would work with other government agencies to make sure that small businesses get their share of federal contracts.To reach this goal , the agency recently  promulgated regulations requiring small businesses to recertify their size status on long-term contracts when a contract option is exercised, when a small business is purchased by or merged with another business or at the end of the first five years of a contract.While applauding Mr. Preston's efforts, lawmakers on both sides of the aisle say they do not feel the moves are nearly enough."The S.B.A. simply cannot do its job on this starvation diet the current administration has it on," said Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and chairman of the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee.Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, has also voiced her concerns about cuts to the S.B.A., saying the budget is still 31 percent less than it was in 2001. Mr. Kerry and Ms. Snowe have proposed a $97 million increase in the S.B.A.'s budget and hiring 100 more people to oversee small-business contracting.The legislation has been approved in the Senate, and Representative Nydia M. Velásquez, Democrat of New York and chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee, is pushing similar legislation in the House.The House recently passed legislation that would increase the share of federal contracts for small business from 23 percent to 25 percent.Even with the legislation, though, lawmakers  say that the agency will still not be on solid footing."We are talking about six straight years of cuts to the agency's budget and programs," Ms. Velásquez said. "This is not something you can correct overnight."The Bush administration  opposes several of the Congressional efforts, despite bipartisan support.Even with the proposed changes, some aren't so sure that the S.B.A, can be turned around.Noting that the S.B.A. backs less than 10 percent of the more than $600 billion in financing of small-business loans under $1 million, they question what help small businesses actually get from the agency."From a broader public policy perspective I think it is harder to justify something like the S.B.A. today," said Mark Zandi, an economist with Moody's Economy.com. "A quarter- century ago it made sense, but today it's much easier for small businesses to get credit."Veronique de Rugy, a research fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization, calls the S.B.A. "irrelevant," adding: "There seems to be no failure of the private sector to allocate loans efficiently."Small-business advocates disagree.Andrew Langer, manager of regulatory affairs at the National Federation of Independent Business, said that although few of his members use S.B.A. loans, the agency, if adequately financed, could serve as an important voice for small business."If you shut down the S.B.A., you lose an organization that is the strongest advocate for small business," Mr. Langer said.
