Everybody gets the same amount of time: 168 hours in a given week; 8,736 in a year. And yet a common complaint among entrepreneurs and small-business owners is that they  wish they had more time.While a 25-hour day is impossible,  there are ways to become more productive within the existing 24.Donald Wetmore, who conducts time management seminars, offers a number of ideas — some obvious, others not — on Powerhomebiz.com, a small-business Web site.Here are some of  his suggestions:¶Plan tomorrow today. If you do not wait until you get into the office to plan your day, you will be that much further ahead. Accept the idea you may not get everything done. The solution is to  prioritize. In creating your "to do" list the night before, "put the  No. 1 next to the most important item on your list. Place the No. 2 next to the second most important item on your list, etc. Then tackle the items on your list in order of their importance. It sounds simple, he says, but most people don't do it, deciding to complete tasks that are easier to do, but not necessarily the most important.¶Do not try to keep it in your head. "A faint pen has more power than the keenest mind. Get into the habit of writing things to do down using one tool (a Day-Timer, pad of paper, Palm Pilot, etc.) Your mind is best used for the big picture rather than all the details."¶Sleep. "You can have a great to do list for your next day but if you are tired, your productivity will be adversely impacted. Schedule a sufficient amount of sleep."¶Take a speed reading class.¶Break for lunch. "After doing what we do for several hours, we start to 'dull out.' Sure, we can work through lunch and be productive, but that is not the issue. The issue is 'how much more' productive we can be. A lunch break, even a short 15-minute break, gives us a chance to get our batteries all charged up again to more effectively handle the afternoon's challenges."MAYBE YOU NEED LESS TIME Before he became known for writing the best seller "The Four-Hour Workweek" (Crown, 2007), Timothy Ferriss was known, if he was known at all, for running a business, BrainQuicken a  developer and distributor of sports-nutrition products based in San Jose, Calif.He was working 15-hour days and was exhausted.He says, in an article  in Fortune Small Business,   that  one of the best things that ever happened to him was discovering the work of the economist Vilfredo Pareto who argued, among other things, that 20 percent of the population owned 80 percent of the property in his country. Others subsequently found that the principle could be applied to a range of issues like company profits, where it is often the case that 80 percent of the  profits  come from 20 percent of the company's customers.Mr. Ferriss came to realize that only 5 of his 120 customers were generating 95 percent of his revenue, and he reorganized his business to focus on them.This raises the question to other entrepreneurs:   Where are the bulk of your revenues coming from? Are you sure?NO EXCUSE When asked to explain their inability to manage their time, a common reason people cite is "information overload." There is just too much data they have to keep up with.David Allen, the author of the book "Getting Things Done" (Penguin, 2002), has an answer to that.Writing in the recently restarted  Success magazine, he says:    "Too much information is not the problem. If it were, we'd walk into a library and faint. We would run from the computer having gone just a few clicks into the results of a search, since each hyperlink leads to a seemingly infinite number of other Web pages. Information overload indicates we're not managing our commitments effectively."WHY WE WAIT "There are many ways to avoid success in life, but the most sure-fire just might be procrastination," Psychology Today writes."Procrastinators sabotage themselves. They put obstacles in their own path. They actually choose paths that hurt their performance."The problem seems to be self-created."Procrastinators are made, not born. Procrastination is learned in the family milieu, but not directly. It is one response to an authoritarian parenting style. Having a harsh, controlling father keeps children from developing the ability to regulate themselves, from internalizing their own intentions and then learning to act on them. Procrastination can even be a form of rebellion, one of the few forms available under such circumstances."Oh, by the way, the magazine says the standard comment of procrastinators, "I do my best work under pressure," turns out not to be true.Procrastinators "do not turn out to be more creative; they only feel that way."LAST CALL Pace Productivity, a company that provides time management services, understands that people  do not want to waste time at home either. Of all the tips they offer, here's our favorite:"Would you like to avoid telemarketing calls while you're having dinner? Simple. Don't answer the phone at dinner time. If it's someone important, they'll leave a message or call back."David Carr, culture reporter and business columnist, is answering questions from readers March 31 to April 4. Questions may be sent to askthetimes@nytimes.com. To move directly to the most recent answer, click here.Mr. Carr writes the Media Equation column for the Monday business section and is a general assignment culture reporter. During the Oscar season, Mr. Carr blogs daily about the Oscars and makes weekly videos as well.In dividing his duties between culture and business, Mr. Carr is something of a hybrid — high mileage (see photo) with intermittent horsepower. As a reporter for The Times, Mr. Carr has taken a book tour with an author on a raft in the Mississippi,  questioned whether news reports during Hurricane Katrina needlessly inflamed public opinion,  and hidden in the bushes at the annual mogul conclave in Sun Valley.  As a columnist and reporter, Mr. Carr is particularly interested in media in all its forms — Web, film, music, television — and how platform shifts are changing consumer habits. He subscribes to four newspapers and has 3,336 songs on his iPod — The National is currently on heavy rotation.After graduating from a land grant university you've never heard of, Mr. Carr worked at alternative weeklies as a writer and editor, including The Twin Cities Reader in Minneapolis and The Washington City Paper in Washington D.C. Mr. Carr came to New York to work at Inside.com, a media news Web site, then worked as a contract writer for New York Magazine and Atlantic Monthly. He came to work at The Times as a business reporter covering publishing in 2002. Mr. Carr is married, with three daughters, and lives in Montclair, N.J., where his lawn is a source of bitter, chronic disappointment for his neighbors and himself. Mr. Carr loves what he does and will talk to anyone about it.Other Times staff members have answered questions in this column, including Executive Editor Bill Keller, Managing Editor Jill Abramson, Managing Editor John Geddes, Assistant Managing Editor Glenn Kramon, Associate Managing Editor Charles Strum, Obituaries Editor Bill McDonald, Director of Copy Desks Merrill Perlman, Metropolitan Editor Joe Sexton, Living Editor Trish Hall, Investigations Editor Matthew Purdy, National Editor Suzanne Daley, Digital News Editor Jim Roberts and Culture Editor Sam Sifton. Their responses and those of other Times editors are on the Talk to the Newsroom page.These discussions will continue in future weeks with other Times editors and reporters.An Encore Performance at FullFrame?Q. Will David Carr and The New York Times be covering the FullFrame Fest in Durham, N.C., this weekend?A. Sioux, Raleigh-Durham and the amazing Full Frame documentary festival will have to limp along without me this year. Apparently, after taking a look at the panel I ran there last year — it had all of the élan and grace of a hostage video — the organizers decided to book in some fresh talent. Have fun without me!Would Anyone Buy This Book?Q. Are you willing to give advice?  If so, here goes a statement and the inevitable question.As a college professor of theater and film who will turn 69 this year, I've been thinking and "Googling" about those films that first made me fall in love with the movies; i.e., those films that were released between 1946 and 1953.  As you know, those dates "bookend" eight tumultuous years in Hollywood — beginning with the most financially successful year the studio system had ever produced, through the 1948 "Paramount decision,"  the actions of the H.U.A.C.  against the "Hollywood Ten," the coming of TV, and the attempts to regain the audience via Cinerama, 3-D, Cinemascope, et al. And yet, as far as I'm concerned, the studio system, while obviously fading, produced a corpus of work during that time that was in many ways more distinguished, more innovative, more adventuresome (and God knows, given the number of films produced, more horrible) than any other time before.That's the statement. Now the question. Would a book — not necessarily a history — about these years be of interest, of value, of "note" to anyone? As of now, I'm thinking about concentrating on the producers — both those employed by the studios and the independents — who chose/guided the noteworthy properties for the constantly dwindling American audience. Any advice would be very much appreciated.A. Gosh, David, after I get done figuring out what kind of material, historical or otherwise, actually connects with book audiences, I will get to work on sectarian violence in Iraq. Go easy on me, it's the second question of my temporary tenure as the answer guy, and if I choke, they could pull the plug at any minute.I love the frame of your  book — nice and tidy, crossing between politics and cinema with alacrity. I'd read a book about how good pictures actually squeezed through the apparatus at that inflection point in cultural history, but keep in mind, I'm a movie fan. Then again, Mark Harris's wonderful new-ish book "Pictures at a Revolution,"  about the back story behind the five best-picture nominees in 1968, has been wonderfully reviewed and people seemed to be buying it. (I did.)David, why not write what you want and forget the market analytics? Anybody who tells you that they know what today's readers want is full of beans.The Old Minneapolis DaysQ. I used to watch you on the Minneapolis Community Network with Brian Lambert and Erik Eskola. Do you consider that the big break that catapulted you to The Times? A. Um, that wasn't me. O.K.. it was, but I've grown so much since then. If, as you suggest, "The Facts as We Know Them," as it was called, was my big break, it should be mentioned that Al Gore had to invent the Internet for me to finally get some more face time in front of the camera. During the awards season, I make weekly videos about the Oscars and movies. My time on the chair lift in Sundance with Tom Arnold  is, well, classic, in sort of a Three Stooges minus one guy sort of way. With a face that looks as if were crafted out of mashed potatoes and a voice that sounds like a trash compactor that needs oil, I'm not a natural for television, but Web TV? Hey, real is the new beautiful. I have incredibly fond memories of "The Facts as We Know Them," if for no other reason that in all of my job travels, I have yet to come across two journalists who are as talented and fun to work with as Erik Eskola and Brian Lambert.Identifying the BaggerQ. Hello! I have a couple of questions for David Carr.1) When you interview people for your Carpetbagger segments in Times Square, do you identify yourself as a New York Times reporter, or not?2) What has been your favorite Carpetbagger interview of all time and why?A. 1) It varies. Some people are immediately drawn to the camera light and they don't care if you are the king of Siam or a reporter for Danish TV. The fact that my last name is "New York Times" has an amazing effect on people when I am calling about a news story, but doing Man (or Woman) on the Streets in Times Square? Not so much. Anytime that people seem interested or ask, I always tell them where I work and give them a card with the URL on it so they can find the interview.2) This is probably trite, but I love when regular people say something completely unexpected. In the 2006-2007 season, the Oscar statues came to a studio in Times Square so people could get their hands on one and make a little speech. The Bagger got a number of cute little interviews with both tourists and locals and then stepped up to a very prim, proper, Nice English Lady."Where would Oscar live in your house?" asked the Bagger."In my bedroom," said the Nice English Lady."It would?" the Bagger asked incredulously."It's where I do some of my best performances," said the Nice English Lady.When the Bagger Is on HiatusQ. Do you miss "being" the Bagger during the rest of the year, or is it a welcome respite from all the Oscar craziness? And how often during this "off season" do you find yourself wanting to say something as the Bagger after seeing a certain film or reading about a movie or a performance, etc.?A. Not one little bit, to be honest, Cristina. The metabolism of the Carpetbagger blog — pretty much file and face-plant every single day — really means the assignment is about durability as much as voice, and I get worn out by the end. I love all of my Oscar friends and the loyal, smart cadre of commenters, but you are talking about an awards season that has all of the trappings and demands of a national election, but results not in The Leader of the Free World, but a best picture. This year, frankly, was kind of a bummer. Not because of the movies — I thought all five were worthy and amazing in their own way — but because of the strike, there was never enough momentum for a running story about the awards themselves. With all of those people out of work, sometimes the award stuff felt a little silly and beside the point.And in terms of weighing in on this or that film, I am a film fan, not a critic, at heart. I grab that sixth-row aisle seat with a jumbo bucket of popcorn and sit there open-mouthed, waiting to be amazed. I read Manohla, Tony and Stephen, real, actual critics, with an acute interest because they watch a film with much more of a gimlet eye.Where Do You Sit? What Do You Like?Q. As a student studying abroad your articles and blog (and The Times in general) have served as a tether back to American news, movies and media. Let me ask though, why do I have to venture in to the business section to get at your articles? Your articles seem to cross all provinces of cultural reporting and your reporting is delivered in a variety of forms and mediums. Where do they keep your physical desk? Do you have license to work on what you want? Also, I'd be remiss if I didn't ask for some favorite films.A. I live on the fourth floor, which is the home of the culture section, which is run by Sam Sifton. I file my Monday columns to Bruce Headlam in business and culture stories to the various section heads up here. I reside in a corner next to Charles McGrath and end up with a lot of the stories they can't talk him into. We had a soaring view of the Duane Reade at 42nd and Eighth Avenue before the new office building next to us began to soar.In terms of a tendency toward nothing in particular regarding platform and subject, it is partly because I have the attention span of a gnat and partly about doing my bit to support The New York Times's seriousness about meeting readers where they live: At home, with a newspaper plopping at the doorstep, on the Web for a quick read on Oscar news, and at work where they sometimes get so bored that they are willing to watch one of the videos that I occasionally do. I have been granted a great deal of latitude in terms of topic and form, and I've tried to respond in kind, filing in different ways to meet different needs, but trying in each instance to uphold the paper's reputation for efficacy and fairness no matter where it ends up.Movies? Glad you asked. I saw "American Teen" the other night, a documentary from Paramount Vantage. It was showing at Sundance when I was there, but I was too busy (see paragraph above) to see many films. Sorry I missed that one and thrilled that I caught up with it. It is an amazing piece of filmmaking, remarkable both in form and narrative, a miniature about a year in the life of a Midwestern high school. All of the high school tropes are there — the popular Gossip Girl, the hapless, hopeless nerd, the jock whose future depends on a single shot — but it quietly explodes out in unforeseen ways. "Trouble the Water," which Manohla Dargis highly recommended, was a film I actually saw and loved at Sundance, partly because the aftermath of  Katrina continues to be such an important story, and partly because it incorporates citizen media to such profound effect. And I did catch "The Counterfeiters" last weekend, which won best foreign film last year. The kind of story that is too remarkable to be true, and yet it is, and in this instance, is rendered with grace and complexity. I caught "La Misma Luna" as well, also known as "Under the Same Moon." Not my cup of treacle precisely, but a moving, telling story about a country that is changing under our collective feet and the immigrant ardor that renews it.Not Exactly "Uma, Oprah" but Close EnoughQ. If  Mark Urman of ThinkFilm married Uma Thurman, would she be Uma Thurman-Urman? Sorry, couldn't help myself. Enjoy your posts — especially the challenge to play with NCFOM.A. And if they had a baby boy, they could name him Herman Thurman-Urman. Because Mark is a Montclair guy, I happen to know that he is not available. He is married to Deborah Davis, the lovely author of "Party of the Century," a riveting deconstruction of the social dynamics behind Truman Capote's black-and-white party, and "Strapless," a detailed historical work about Virginie Amelie Gautreau, the muse and subject of the painter John Singer Sargent. All due respect to Ms. Thurman, she's no Deborah Davis.How Do You Rate as a Timesman?Q. Are you the greatest Timesman of your generation? A. I am a total middle guy at The Times. If you look at what someone like Andrew Ross Sorkin did on Bear Stearns or Lydia Polgreen is writing from Darfur or William Rashbaum manged to do with the Eliot Spitzer story, I have never done that kind of work here. But a boy can dream, no?  I read and am amazed like many other people who subscribe to The New York Times. Make no mistake, I am an earner here — I file a lot — but the bosses generally keep me away from breaking news or stories requiring nuance or subtlety. I am happy to be in the boat and rowing on any given day and will do so unless they wise up and throw me overboard.The Brains Behind the OperationQ. Is it true that Lorne Manly is actually the brains behind the operation and ghostwrites all your columns?A.Lorne Manly, as some of you might not be aware, is the film editor of The New York Times. While it is true that the story I wrote for him Tuesday was his idea, and yes, he may have suggested some of the sources, and yes, he put a very vigorous edit on it,  and sure, the animating central idea was his, I really did some of the actual typing. Conspiracy theorists may have noticed that when I came to work in New York in 2000, Lorne Manly was my editor at Inside.com. And yes, when I got hired at The Times in 2002, it was as part of a package with Mr. Manly. And O.K., he eventually became my boss and editor in the media section in business. And now that I come to think of it, after I moved up to culture, he was appointed movie editor and manages a lot of my copy here. But ignore the fact that we seemed to be tied together with yarn and that I seem to be in need of constant minding. He's Canadian, so he's used to trying to anneal some of the rougher edges on his clanky American neighbor. If Lorne writes something smart into one of the pieces that I file to him and I happen to get a compliment about it, I always say the same thing:"Thanks man. That stuff just comes to me. It's all very mysterious."Conscience and EnlightenmentQ. Do you think your conscience enlightens your work, and if so, how?A. I'm a journalist, so I am by definition a moral and ethical eunuch, so what would I know of conscience? Kidding, Susan.I think the issue of conscience has never had a more important role in my work. For years, I worked at a variety of publications where the metric on excellence, or at least getting noticed, was being willing to say things in transgressive ways. At The New York Times, the instrument is big enough and the stakes are high enough, so that even if you only land a glancing blow through imprecision, carelessness, or a desire to aggrandize, you can ruin someone's life, or at least their career. When I first arrived here, I was paralyzed by both the worry that I would get something wrong or that I would make a mistake in judgment that would land hard on someone. Gradually, over time, I began to realize that if I did my part and played fair and square with my sources and subjects, the apparatus would do the rest. I think you and other readers would be surprised how often the issue of fairness and rectitude comes up when editors are going over copy. If we casually throw grenades over our shoulders every time we do a story, there will soon be no bridges left.When I was the editor of Washington City Paper, I often told my reporters to put both their conduct and their copy to the "Mom test." If they could not explain the what's and why's they did to their mother in a short conversation, they were probably making a deep, irretrievable mistake. When I go to church on Sunday — yes, some of us are women and men of faith — and they ask us to bow our heads and pray for forgiveness of our sins, I'd just as soon that none of my professional choices be on that list. Nothing is more distressing as a reporter to do a story, come in the next morning and see a phone message from someone who is reasonable, thoughtful, and clearly appalled by your work. You have to be able to defend those choices with a clear head, and yes, a clean conscience.It's the Economy, Right?Q.  If two of every three jobs is created by small business and small business can't get capital, especially with home equity shut off, how can the economy grow? Why is so little done for small business?A.  Stanford, I took college micro-economics from Walter M. Heller, but my cluelessness around the fundamentals earned some stern lectures from my teaching assistant, so I'm hardly a savant. But in this contraction, I think the scurry to prop up the markets without actually working to enhance the apparatus of job creation is something we will rue. I just brought my taxes in to an accountant who has a client base of contractors, restaurants and small business owners. And he told me that his gang is off 10 to 20 percent from last year. This is where American greatness is actually forged and I think that the bottleneck in capital for businesses like yours is going to have a very long and punishing tale.Where Are We in Economic Contraction?Q. Why do the S&P 500, Dow and Nasdaq all surge after news of multibillion-dollar write-downs at Wall Street investment firms? Are we at the end of the financial meltdown or still in the early innings in your opinion?A.  Listen hard to what I say about the markets and then go the other way. That's what my wife and financial planner do and it's worked well for them. The fundamentals scare me. As a nation, we have been exporting jobs and debt, and not funding innovation at home. The amount of leverage that other nations will have over our collective future in the coming decades is daunting. And Wall Street? It is, to paraphrase Spalding Gray, located on an island off the coast of America, unconnected to both reality and the rest of the country. It's like a casino where big players win and lose, but if they lose big enough, the government is forced to use the not so invisible hand to prop them up. Commodities of all sorts are jumping, with oil companies booking record profits and farmers fighting off efforts to curb subsidies even as price and demand grow.As I said, my own grasp of the issues is somewhat tenuous, but I work alongside a couple of people who have won Pulitzers, or may soon, for figuring out what the past means and what the future holds for the economy. Anybody who has stayed with our Gretchen Morgenson's amazing ongoing coverage of the lack of  consequence on Wall Street could tell you the same thing. And David Cay Johnston has done a fantasic job of demonstrating how wealthy individuals and big companies have "innovated" their way out of paying anything resembling a fair share of taxes. And for my money, what little of it I have, David Leonhardt has the clearest grasp on some very complicated times where rhetoric is colliding with some grim realities. Never mind macro-economics, common sense says that you can't overheat markets with cheap credit, prop them up when the party ends, and then expect to rationalize the mess without losing ground as a nation and a people. The economy's currency as an issue in the current presidential campaign is a clear indication that a lot of regular people worry that when the Dow goes up 400 points, as it did Tuesday, the exuberance is clearly irrational.Ease Up on Mrs. ClintonQ.Maybe you could talk to Mr. Frank Rich and Ms. Maureen Dowd to tell them not to be so mean to Mrs. Clinton. You could encourage them to write more balanced columns.A. You think that Maureen Dowd or Frank Rich need my input?  Long before I ever typed a word here, they were annotating the American political narrative with myriad insights from pop culture and a firm grasp of realpolitick. The op-ed apparatus is its own kingdom here and they take their cues from the news of the day, not from hacks like me in the newsroom. And yes, Frank did light Mrs. Clinton up last Sunday, but in his umbrage, he seems to reflect a common concern among many voters whom I know. The opinion pages do their own thing, but there is hardly a reflexive skepticism when it comes to Mrs. Clinton. Let's not forget that our editorial page endorsed her candidacy for the nomination. The fact that it came with a portion of tough love from our opinionaters should surprise no one.About Those VideosQ. I'm a big fan of your blog every Oscar season. It's hard to shake the post-Oscar ennui when your blog ceases to update shortly after the big show. My questions go to your weekly videos. How long does each video roughly take to make? How many out-takes and the like does the process involve? How many people does it take to shoot? Are we going to see a Carpetbagger blooper reel anytime soon? Who picks the topics? And lastly, how do you keep yourself entertained in the off-season?A.Andrew, there are no scripts, no takes, no nothing on site. The aesthetic of the Web — that which is best is that which is real — dictate that we just hit it and quit it. The fact that cracks are visible in the end product is part of what adds to verisimilitude and appeal. There are two of us, shoots rarely go longer than an hour, and no, no blooper reel, which is so full of expletives from blown lines that it would have more bleeps than an episode of "The Hills."Just because we shoot them in a hurry, doesn't mean they are not a bear to edit and put together. During Sundance, I was rooming with my videographer/producer Jeremy Beiler and I was horrified at how long it took to make a package. Hours and hours of knitting and hondling, cutting and pasting. I may not be qualified to be in front of the camera, but I am going to stay there. The other side of it can be pretty grim once the shooting stops.A Book in the Works?Q.  Word is that you've been working on a warts-and-all memoir of your scurrilous past. What can you tell us now? (Can't wait to see you on Oprah!)A. Just about every New York Times writer with children of college age — I have twin girls in college and the tuition bills to show for it — has some kind of book they are nudging along. Mine has nothing to do with The Times, so the less said about it here, the better. Let's just say that we all contain wart-marked multitudes.A Distinctive VoiceQ. This is a totally trivial question, but I have to know: Why is your voice so darn hoarse? Is it from smoking?A. Yes.Q.  Or is it a result of all those Carpetbagger segments? (No offense, but you are one loquacious dude.)A.And yes to that. Combo is deadly. Am in good voice right now, not totally off the ciggies, but have the miracle quit-smoking drug Chantix on the shelf and I am edging toward doing the right thing. Thanks for adding public embarrassment to my list of reasons for quitting, Darryl.Second Thoughts About Rupert Murdoch?Q. Any second thoughts about how you thought Murdoch would destroy The Wall Street Journal? What are your Wall Street Journal colleagues saying about his rule or misrule?A.  This is what I said when he bought it:This is what I said on Feb. 11:And then I added later in the column:Neither position seems in need of emendation at this point. The folks I know at the Journal are jumpy, but fundamentally happy. And none of them have given any indication that Mr. Murdoch is reading into the news process in untoward ways. Jack Shafer, a ferocious critic of the purchase, said as much recently, but suggested that in an effort to broaden the paper's portfolio, the editors and writers may be neglecting the Journal's historical sweet spot.    But I am not one to underestimate the people who work there — most of us here are readers and admirers of the paper no matter who owns it — and I would be the last one to suggest that the paper has been damaged in some way. It was and is a great paper.On TyposQ. Here's the adoring fan part: I think you have the most wonderful writing style; I am happy to read anything you write about anything.  You're right up there with Benchley as far as I'm concerned.  "The Carpetbagger" is the only blog I have ever read regularly.Here's the middle-aged crank part: Why does your blog have typos so often?  Is it because you file it in such an ultra-timely fashion?  May I copy edit it for you?A.  So Leah, a little bitter with the sweet, huh? You're right, I am prone to typos and some of them sneak through. The metric on the Web is speed and while we try to stay on tempo with as much efficacy as possible, the blogs don't have the layers upon layers of copy editing that catches everything. The entries are edited, but we push them out as quickly as we can and then attempt to remediate if something is glaring or obvious. Again and again, we get notes about how there can be a misplaced apostrophe in THE NEW YORK TIMES, but these are new and different muscles we are exercising. There are people here who can generate pristine, grammatically correct copy right off the top of their noggin. I just don't happen to be one of them.Overlapping PlatformsQ. Do you find much overlap between your print and your Web audience? And what does it all mean? A. I was shopping for skis the other day and a guy next to me said, "Hey, I really liked your videos from Sundance."That doesn't happen much with the print version of me. Other than that, I think that consumers share the platform agnosticism of the newspaper itself. That satisfying plop on the doorstep followed by grazing the organized serendipity of The Times's editorial decisions is still one of the great joys of this age, if you ask me. And I think the new navigational elements on Pages 2, 3 and 4 are smashing. Very Webby, allowing you to surf through all manner of topics and guide you through the paper. And as the day progresses, The Times is there on your desktop, sometimes in a version that has little to do with print. (Check out Melena Ryzik's chat with Bjork about her "Wanderlust" video for an example of institutional muscles and sensibility arrayed over digital realms.) I use both — although there is some truth to the fact that you can either write for the paper or read the paper ... there is not always enough time to do both.Q. And what does it all mean?A. Wow, Peter, are you watching those "Kung Fu" vids on Netflix again? Lemme see, what it means is that information, if it is valuable enough, will always perform a jailbreak on any constraints and find a way to the consumer's eyes and ears.And the 'Reason' Is ... Q. Hello from Scotland! Before I ask you my question may I thank you for all the great videos you put out during the Oscars. The New York Times is not the same without your personal visits! I would like to please ask you what is the "reason" they call it Times Square? A. Ali, you get a pass here, because you are not a local, but the reason they call it Times Square is that this piece of iconic American real estate was named after a little daily newspaper that moved its headquarters to what was then Longacre Square in the early 1900s.Close Encounters With the GlitteratiQ. It is wonderful that we get a chance to ask the Bagger a question. But I was scanning the list of those who have answered questions previously and I noticed that the obituaries editor, Bill McDonald, was one of them. (I've always been curious about how one can get a bold-faced obit in The New York Times. O.K., I know the answer, "When you're dead, give us a ring and we will see what we can do.") Bill McDonald is a hard act to follow. Well anyway, my question for you is, does your position as a media reporter for The New York Times have any special meaning for folks. I mean do you ever hob nob with the stars; share e-mails with Gwyneth, Steven, Jack, Tom? Have to give bid tips? Meet Roger Ebert? What's it like to be a culture reporter and business columnist? A. I just came from Robert Downey Jr.'s house in Brentwood. He hugged me at the end of the interview and said that the process was deeply meaningful, that we were going to be friends forever. Well, the second part is a lie, but I did spend two hours talking with him about "Ironman" and "Tropic Thunder," two movies he has coming out.The job title and prerogatives have limits, probably because of whom they are stapled to. Rupert Murdoch does not take my calls, I've had lunch with Gwyneth, but she couldn't pick me out of lineup. Tom Hanks was enormously gracious and genial to me in a video interview — in the precise way he is to everyone. A lot of my bigger celebrity interactions — Angelina Jolie — have been over a hedge on a red carpet, which tends to cut down on the intimacy. I generally don't have a bone that vibrates to celebrity — contrary to what US Weekly says, they are not Just Like Us, they are often oddlets who live in a cocoon built of publicists and they enjoy the sound of their own voices and little else. Celebrities are your pretend friends while you have business in common and most good journalists know that when actors are acting all warm and friendly, they are, well, acting. There are exceptions. I had a drink with George Clooney at the Four Seasons during Oscar week and he called me by name (his publicist had no doubt briefed him, but why quibble?). I took a walking tour of New York historical sites with David McCullough that was mind-bendingly wonderful. Laura Linney shows all journalists genuineness and warmth, and I did get a bite at Sundance with her "John Adams" co-star Paul Giamatti and we talked about normal things. Don't get me started about Kate Winslet. Amazing talent, amazingly nice. And a few years ago, I finished an interview with Clint Eastwood on the studio lot and started packing up and he said: "What's your hurry? Let's talk for a while." O.K., Mr. Eastwood. I mean, Clint.Films, as Influenced by CartoonsQ. Could you comment on my supposition that movies increasingly reflect a cartoon mentality? Originally, directors came out of a theatrical background, with a strong sense of character and narrative ... postwar, film schools produced a horde of technicians with minimal or no exposure to "live" audiences ... today, the action and characters are more like Looney Tunes types, people get shot and spring back to life, others "scream" in a stereotyped reaction mode, and of course, there's the prolonged "N-o-o-o-o!", signifying distress. A. Maybe you're asking the wrong guy. I wrote a story a while ago about why animated films are so much funnier than live-action films, but I get your gist and think there is merit in what you say. The willingness of live-action films to go over the top and stay there — to parody themselves as they go — can be nauseating and punishing to behold. And I am no fan of filmmakers who always want to put the audiences in on the joke. I like movies that are magical, that transport to another place using the fundaments of dialogue and story. (I mentioned "The Counterfeiters" in an earlier post and "The Lives of Others" was my favorite of 2006, so maybe the great American film is actually being made elsewhere.Part of what is going on is that so many films are conceptually driven and, as you point out, become the work of technicians who attempt to build a movie rather than tell a story.One point I would add though: If you're looking for a great story with characters who behave and act in logical, but interesting ways, the writer/director Brad Bird is worth checking out. Okay, so he makes animated movies, but I would set the scripts for "Ratatouille" and "The Incredibles" side by side with any of the classics. That guy knows how to write — he received an Academy Award nomination for script this year — and direct.The Digital Newspaper of the FutureQ.  I would subscribe to the digital newspaper of the future. It's basically a news clearinghouse that provides a service to readers and eliminates the practice and dependence of newspapers on free links via Web sites. It works like Google, but it's designed like an elegant, efficient, highly searchable and continuously updated database that I can interface with and pull reports from to appear on my computer screen in any number of formats.  And because it's a modern service, blogs are in the database, too. And yes, it would have ads and links to the sources. I'm afraid first generation news gathering will die if subscription service doesn't make a comeback, it's not just page views and unique visitors. What do you think? I'm tired of this one-way conversation. A. Holly, I know from talking to the mad scientists upstairs that we are looking at any number of interfaces on any number of platforms, but our primary value added comes from brand — one that stands for efficacy and reliability — and not as a utility. Subscription models? Well, I was part of one really grand experiment in 2000 at Inside.com that had great journalism, but was waaay ahead of its time. And in the current environment, consumer willingness to take the time to even sign up for an information feed — other than clicking an RSS button — seems low, let alone paying for the opportunity. Maybe there is something out there compelling enough to alter a consumer expectation that all information will be free and infinitely customizable — see my column last Monday for my take on the current environment — but we will have to wait and see. I can envision an organic evolution toward seamless micropayments for something as wonderful as what you describe, but I think that for now, the buy-in would be too limited to give up the model of selling advertising against accumulated eyeballs. Our Times Select product had much to commend it — Frank Rich for starters — but in the end, our leadership decided that it was in our long-term interest to throw open the gates and build audience.Have We Reached a Low Point?Q. For starters: Your various and diverse columns are always enjoyable. My question is this: Although I discount comparisons to Ancient Rome and generalizations of "Empire Ending" as narrow and shortsighted, do you think that this country has reached a cultural, spiritual and business low-point in its history from your vantage point of writing on so many different topics? Having lived through the '60s and the era of Picasso, The Beatles, Leonard Bernstein, Hitchcock, and, let's say, "The Prisoner" on television (or Monty Python), are we experiencing a very, very broad malaise in the arts? And while the stock market always resembled a casino, now it is looking more like a Ponzi scheme and ethics and standards seem to be based on what one can get away with (but of course this is not true of many honest businesses). Have you thought about this at all?A. Bernard, not riding with you on this one. Cullen Murphy, once of the Atlantic and now of Vanity Fair, wrote a wonderful book on this very topic titled, "Are We Rome?" I think not, but sometimes I worry that we are not what we think we are either. There is a hubris, an expecation that inertia will prevent our loss of status as a nation, but there are so many more powerful nations in play as the world reiterates. Our political apparatus remains functional and democratic, our makets may have lost some fairness and taxation seems to be in need of rationalizing, but I don't hear violins playing or the edifice of American greatness on fire. Culturally, I am not one of these people who thinks that it was so much richer and deeper back in the day. (Not a huge Beatles fan, for one thing.) I think culture is being democratized and enabled by the Web, as is the political discussion, although there is a coarsening in the discourse I find disconcerting.Why Can't Movies Stay Longer?Q. Why is the industry so impatient with the films it releases? Many an intriguing offering will come and go from theaters near me so quickly that I have no realistic chance to see it or even hear about it before it's too late. No one seems willing to try to build a picture with word of mouth any more. It's not like there is any shortage of screens; in many cities and suburbs, people have 10 or 20 multiplexes — a hundred screens or more — to conveniently choose from. What would be the harm in letting a promising little picture like "CJ7" or "The Band's Visit" stay on one of those screens for a few extra weeks and letting it find its audience, instead of yanking it if it doesn't pack the house on the first weekend? A. Hey Pat, is there room for two on that hobbyhorse? Great movies, including "Before the Devil Knows You're Dead" and a host of others this past fall got pushed out from behind because there were just too many serious movies trying to edge into exhibition space. The multiplexes are preoccupied by movies that have huge marketing budgets behind them and the chance of frantic opening weekends. The advent of digital technologies has made movie production more ubiquitous than ever, and there was a great deal of private equity money coming into the picture financing new product. The result was a lot of great small movies, and the clutter to match. I am hoping that the growth of alternate pipelines — day and date release, straight to digital with cable release, or in a few years, a big wide world of digital distribution on the Web. In the meantime, maybe you and I should upgrade our Netflix accounts so we can catch up on what we are missing.Following in Dad's Footsteps?Q. Growing up in Detroit in the '60s I enjoyed reading classical music reviews in The Detroit News/Free Press from a "Carr."  Was that your father?  If so, where is he now and doing what? A. Not my dad, although he is a brilliant writer — prone to typos like his son, but he can throw down some blarney. My dad owned and managed clothing stores in Minneapolis and is incredibly well turned out. It is a source of mystery and sadness for him that none of his four sons can dress. We are all schlubs compared to him.Something for the Ride HomeQ. It is nice reading The Times on the way to work or at work online in the morning but readers are without a newspaper for the commute home.  Would the Times ever consider publishing an afternoon paper or a Times "lite" type publication for commuters on the way home? A. Mike, my feeling is that within three to five years, there will be an embedded and growing base of digital readers that are cheap, lightweight and constantly updated. (I know, that future never seems to arrive, but I think the iPhone multitouch interface is going to spark a huge wave of innovation in all formats.) And in that environment, an afternoon feed of Times journalism as it develops through the day will be a natural. (And in the meantime, I never hit the bus without a copy of the paper I thought I read that day. It's amazing how much I missed.)About Those Bagger VideosQ. I love your video reports. They are insightful as well as entertaining. I have three questions: Do you script them in advance or storyboard sequences before shooting? A. We wing it, talking on the way to the shoot, but I never rehearse and never write. They count me down and I start blabbing.Q. Who produces the video? A. Jeremy Beiler, poor soul, who is left to graft together the hodgepodge into a coherent narrative.Q. How labor intensive is shooting, editing and producing a video report, versus writing a column?A. Easy for me, because I am treated as talent. The back end is where all the work is. It can get onerous when the ideas are not coming or when a shoot goes bad, but most of the time, it is fairly contained and let's me do the rest of my job.There's a Lot of News Out ThereQ. As a journalist who covers a wide berth, how do you stay current on the myriad subjects you cover? Does the Bagger hit the blogs as soon as his slippered feet hit the floor? Do you have a suite of sources you stick to or do you make an effort to sniff out new ones? A. When that dreaded bell tolls in the morning — I stay up too much — I often start at the back end of The Times and work my way forward. I also get The New York Post, The Wall Street Journal and The Star-Ledger at my house.I have RSS feeds set up for entertainment and media news. In heavy current rotation on my bookmarks? Romenesko, natch, for journalism stuff. And iwantmedia.com is a great, quick resource for convergence issues. Women's Wear Daily and Mediabistro are frequent stops.Culture? I read BoingBoing to keep in touch with stuff I never thought of, Vulture and Defamer because they are so beautifully written and frequently have high news value. I find the blogs at the trades — Variety and The Hollywood Reporter — to have real value. Movie City News has great taste in links. Anything having to do with awards, I swear by Awards Daily. Some thing have to be sacrificed, so I don't follow the political blogs like I should and am not up on box scores or the latest op-ed pieces. In an age where everyone wakes up to a firehouse of information, some things have to go, so I will step up to the Final Four with no idea of what is going on.Hanging Out in the Culture DepartmentQ. Who are the true arbiters of culture at The New York Times? Is there an overall culture editor ? A. Yeah, his name is Sam Sifton and he manages to see everything. As in, I came in last week with my daughter for a Saturday matinee of "Passing Strange," the rock musical on Broadway. And when I proudly mentioned that we got cheap tickets at TKTS, Sam said, "Yeah, that's great. I saw it when it was downtown."Q. Do you and Melena, Manohla, A.O. and the others ever get together and discuss current trends and movies?A. Other than the fact that I never see them in the same place — Manohla lives in L.A. — I think they have a ton of secret meetings where careers are brokered and reputations made, but then I wouldn't know for sure would I? I never get invited.Q. ...and agree most of the time? A. Hardly. I have never seen anybody talk Manohla into anything in her life.Brotherly LoveQ. Given your propensity to wear only black, and ill fitting at that, where do you get off labeling your brothers as schlubs? I know of one who is a great dresser when the occasion calls for it. That he is a midlevel captain of industry dictates very few circumstances that require sartorial splendor. Comfort is the coin of the realm.A. Thanks for writing and straightening that out. You forgot to mention that my black clothes are not only ill fitting, but generally soup stained.Part of the Problem?Q. I'm an avid consumer of news about the business of media, but disappointed in The Times's coverage.  And now I realize that you, my favorite writer on that beat, may be part of the problem. Woe is me.Let me elaborate.Your byline always draws me to articles that I might otherwise pass over based on the headline, although I must confess that The Carpetbagger just didn't interest me this year.  (Although I watch every minute of the Oscars, I found the movies this year too depressing or morally obnoxious.  I'm talking about "Juno," whose light-hearted approach to teen pregnancy was loathsome to this father of a 20-something daughter.)But I digress.I've always been confused and slightly annoyed by The Times's coverage of the business of media.  Sometimes pieces appear in the Business section, sometimes in the Arts.  Sometimes the pieces rival (but never quite equal) those of Ken Auletta in The New Yorker (with all the time and space he needs), and sometimes they are weak and sketchy, mostly when written by beat reports and buried.And now I realize after reading some of your earlier replies to questions here, you may be the problem!Their best business/media writer is ensconced in a den of cultured critics.I say The Times should move your desk, focus media business coverage on the business pages and let the Arts section deal with ratings for "Dancing with the Stars" and revivals of "Camelot," and reviews of the latest tomes of B-list literary authorsA. I read and enjoy Ken Auletta — he leverages access into several remarkable pieces a year, but while they are a joy, they are not designed to keep the reader up to date on the shifts in platforms, deals and marketing that is driving the media business at such a rapid pace.I can't swing with your dismissal of the daily culture report — we take that stuff VERY seriously around here and so do our readers — and the suggestion that a story off the desk of a beat reporter is somehow less-than. We have veteran reporters with deep sources and history on their subjects — Bill Carter, Stuart Elliot, Gerry Fabrikant — and it shows up every single Monday in the section edited by Bruce Headlam and Jennifer Kingson. If a media story breaks, it is probably breaking in The Times. It is true that the paper and the broader culture has wrestled with where the "show" ends and the "business" begins in show business, but I don't think anybody matches our horsepower or commitment. Add in the new folks we have added — Brian Stelter has a generational understanding of how media is used, Louise Story has done amazing work about the intersect between data and marketing, and Tim Arango may be the best sourced corporate media reporter around  — and I don't think it much matters where I sit.Got Any Favorites?Q. What was your favorite interview — time, place, person, feeling afterward? And what is your favorite New York Times piece? Thanks for the streams and interviews. Fun and interesting. A. Couple of things. During the Republican convention in New York, I started just wandering around our temporary bureau at Madison Square Garden. Nobody asked me — we had plenty of talent on hand — but I just wanted in. And the metro editors eventually worn down by my presence — think Donkey boucing around in the back of the pack in "Shrek" saying "Pick me, pick me" — eventually gave me a story to work on about how New York had done with all of the incoming visitors. And a pal of mine who is a reporter from Minnesota, Pat Kessler, told me about a woman who would not come to New York until she first wrote her will because it is such a dangerous place.And speaking of Minnesota, a bunch of Brooklyn artists went there to build a raft out of recycled junk and pilot it down the river. As you might imagine, it took them a while to get going — something about the motors that ran on fry grease — but sitting at the top of the human-powered ferris wheel taking notes with "Strange Fruit" blasting out of the speakers below me and the river spreading out in front, I felt like my whole life had been some kind of wonderful caper.In a very different way, the stories I did at the end of the Mississippi during Katrina were important for me personally. When big things happen, there is an institutional impulse at The Times to get all hands on deck and then help each other as much as possible to get at the greater truth. I saw award-winning photographers jumping out of boats and pulling them through the muck so someone else could get the shot. And I was able to lock up an important column about media misinformation because a colleague I didn't even really know — Shaila Dewan — was able to use her sources to get real actual information. After spending a lot of my professional life as a free agent, it is a wonderful feeling to be part of something larger and sometimes noble.Dwindling Public Trust in Media?Q. The Times and the media report poll results for everybody but themselves. Public trust in newspapers has fallen to a record low of 22 percent, according to the annual Gallup Confidence in InstitutionsPoll for June 2007. Is the lack of coverage caused by ignorance or a coverup?A. George, I'll take a whack, but why would you trust the likes of me to answer? Kidding. According to the results I read, the actual percentage of people who expresed "a great deal" of confidence in newspapers and television was 28 percent, which put journalism above big business and Congress — 22 percent, btw — but below the military, the police, organized religion and for all I know, phone solicitors. Much of it is self-inflicted. Competitive pressures, metastasized by the competition fostered by the Web, pushes news organizations into some fiascos. (I wrote about the recent problems The Los Angeles Times had in its reports about who was behind the murder of Tupac Shakur. As everyone knows, The New York Times has had some problems of its own — Jayson Blair was a friend of mine and I was caught completely flat-footed by what he did, as were the previous leaders of the institution. So I get it.What I never understand is the amount of motive that is assigned to both our judgments and mistakes in the political arena. I don't end up writing about politics much, but when I do, it doesn't matter who it is about, all manner of fire-breathing e-mailers come storming over the hill to suggest that I am on the take, or in somebody's pocket, or am a liberal/fascist/Klan member. Conspiracy is the coin of the Web, and The New York Times resides at the fulcrum of many of the theories, but if our current leadership has a political agenda, I have failed to discern it. On any given day, we vote the story, best as we see it, with fear and favor toward none. That doesn't mean that there are not judgments to argue over — a lot of people took issue with our McCain story recently. But the pat answer that we will throw someone under a bus to sell papers or push an agenda is nonsense.Up and Coming DirectorsQ. Who is your favorite up and coming director? A. Finally, an easy one. Did you see "Away From Her"? The woman who made it is 28 years old. I dunno about you, but when I was 28, I was perfecting my Frisbee throw and shopping for cheap 12-packs. Sarah Polley, a Canadian actress with great credits at a tender age, read Alice Munro's "The Bear Came Over the Mountain" and adapted it into a screenplay that became a complicated, gorgeous little movie. (See my video interview with her here.) The movie is almost perfect in mood and execution, something a lot of first-time directors don't come near. (You can see the other aspects of Ms. Polley's skill set in "John Adams," the HBO series where she plays Mr. Adams's winsome daughter.)Others? Dito Montiel, made a crazy, beautiful first movie called "A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints." Don Roos, who makes a living writing movies, directed a gorgeous, underseen gem, "Happy Endings."  (Bonus for clicking on the link: My most embarrassing correction ever. Let's just say it involves transposing "foreign" and "porno." The list goes on ... Bennet Miller, who directed "Capote," is going to be making great films for many years to come. And El Gordo, Guillermo del Torro is on a tear, following up the marvelous "Pan's Labyrinth" with another "Hellboy" film and his own take on "The Hobbit."More About Storytelling, PleaseQ. Dear David (and isn't it a mixed blessing that your approachable style puts all of America on a first-name basis with you?) — A bit of clarification, please, on what Prof. Clay Shirky was driving at in your column last month when he said:Isn't that just a nice way of saying that the storytellers will still be around, but because they are not part of a big business infrastructure with factories and transmission towers and yes, The Virgin Megastore, they just aren't going to make enough money to live on anymore?A. Donald, I felt my massive net worth dropping as Professor Shirky spoke. So-called disruptive technologies create dynamism and change, but they create a lot of misery as well. I do think that certain types of storytelling — say covering a five-year-old war that is characterized by dangerous assymetries — require the participation of the consumer in terms of paying the freight. And the price of everything dropping to free has other implications: During the writers' strike, all sorts of wonderful work popped out on the Web, but came from an embedded base of writers who had been built up by the system of residuals. There have been some work arounds in the music business — using free or cheap recorded product to kick up sales of live shows and ancillary products — but you wonder if great music can be financed over the long haul by T-shirt sales. (Don Frazier was the mayor of Minneapolis, a wonderful politician I covered, but you probably aren't that guy. If you were, we would be on a first-name basis, right?)The Future of NewsprintQ. In response to a question, you wrote in part: "And in the meantime, I never hit the bus without a copy of the paper I thought I read that day. It's amazing how much I missed."While I don't hit a bus, I keep it with me during the day and always find something to read. The columnists alone, Friedman, Dowd, Rich, Collins, et al, are worth the subscription price. Yes, I like picking up the paper, flipping the pages, getting that New York Times ink on my hands. The Saturday paper seems, much like the day, a more leisurely, though no less satisfying, read.Yet, I am 53 and I foresee, within my lifetime and much to my sincere regret, the complete demise of the printed version of The New York Times, that thing that goes splat on the driveway at about 6 a.m. I know that the 20-somethings, save probably for those going into journalism, are simply not buying a print newspaper. But I don't want to read The New York Times only online. What to do?? A. I do not see the printed product going away or simply serving as a brochure for the online version. A certain set of consumers and advertisers are always going to want to consume in that form and will pay a premium to do so. The rest of the readers will come in hybrid forms, but I think you and I can depend on the plop for some years to come.Alternative WeekliesQ. As someone who has worked for what I would call "alternative media," in Minneapolis, do you think that's a legitimate (easy, boy) stepping stone in a journalism career toward working for papers like the Old Grey Lady? Will alt. print media be replaced by electronic methods more easily or rapidly than national outlets (nytimes.com and washingtonpost.com)? Care to speculate about the future of alternative media? Did you find your locally based alternative media jobs more engaging than your lofty national post? Why? Bonus question: Are you a Minnesota Twins fan, or has New York corrupted you with it's pinstripe and/or orange-black-and-blue allure? Are you a baseball fan at all? A. It is weird to look around the august confines of The Times and see how many of us altie refugees there are. Terry Tang, an editor from metro, who came from the Seattle Weekly, Sam Sifton, who runs the culture department put in a lot of time at The New York Press. And there are tons of folks here from The New York Observer. The alt weeklies are getting worked over, in part because Craig's List has a natural appeal and utlity to their traditional audience. And the amount of consolidation in the space — Village Voice Media owns 17 papers — means that some of the idiosyncracies, like local film criticism, are getting rubbed out even as they finance and execute serious news in their respective markets. The lessons that we learned in those jobs — I was both a writer and an editor at weeklies for a long time — are now part of the mainstream: character and narrative are sturdy rails to run information on. I think it would be horrible if they were supplanted by local blogs built on snark and very little in the way of phone calls.And in re, my beloved Twins. I have not gone native. There is a security guy at the front desk who is a huge Mets fan and he never misses an opportunity to rub in the Santana trade. I always push back, saying if you can't build, you have to buy, but I think the Twinkies are in for a pretty grim year.What Does the Future Hold?Q. I am a soon-to-be 25-year-old young woman ... is myworld going to be O.K.?  Excuse me for my subjectivity ... my strength for objectivity is bleak right now. A. Jera, I have 19-year-old twin girls and after I rail about how the world is going to hell in a handbasket, I always remind them that my parents told me precisely the same thing. It is a glorious, scary, dynamic time to be taking over the world. Do a good job with it.Attorney General Michael Mukasey was supposed to end the cynical politicization of the Justice Department. But the sudden disbanding of the United States attorney's public corruption office in Los Angeles looks like business as usual.There were a number of sensitive inquiries under way at the  high-profile office, including an investigation of Representative Jerry Lewis, the powerful California Republican who directed hundreds of millions of dollars in earmarks to favored government contractors while chairman of the appropriations committee.Representative Lewis denied any wrongdoing as investigators tracked ties between windfall government contracts and lucrative campaign donations. One former staff specialist on earmarks crossed over to become a potent lobbyist for contractors. The inquiry appears to have lagged during the administration's strategic reshuffling of United States attorneys.Thomas O'Brien, the United States attorney in Los Angeles, says the 17 lawyers in the unit will be transferred to other units without diminishing the anticorruption effort. He insists the revamping of his office will allow pursuit of more corruption cases, not fewer.Senator Dianne Feinstein isn't buying that. The California Democrat, who has been a force in highlighting the suspected political purge of federal prosecutors, is demanding a detailed explanation from Attorney General Mukasey. She is rightly asking whether  political figures at the White House or Justice Department are behind the decision to close the office. "I have serious concerns about the potential impact of this change," the senator wrote to Mr. Mukasey. So do we.SAN FRANCISCO — Google had little desire to own a premium slice of the nation's airwaves, but a week into a federal auction for wireless licenses, it found itself at risk of being the winning bidder for the coveted spectrum.The  spectrum would have cost  $4.7 billion, Google's biggest single investment. Winning would have thrust the company into the wireless business and could have sent Google's battered shares even lower.Google and other companies began publicly discussing some of the auction's behind-the-scenes action after an anti-collusion rule prohibiting participants from commenting was lifted Thursday. Google bid in the auction to honor a promise made to the Federal Communications Commission.Last summer, the company vowed to bid a minimum of $4.6 billion, the reserve price, for a set of frequencies known as the C block as long as the F.C.C. imposed some "openness" conditions on it. The F.C.C. imposed two conditions, requiring the owner of the spectrum to open its network to devices and services from third parties.Google's main goal, however, was not to win, but to make sure the reserve price was met so that the openness conditions would become effective, ensuring that its search, e-mail, maps and other services would be easily available on phones operating on those frequencies. And while the company had willingly taken the risk that it could end up winning, it was not without trepidation."Our primary goal was to trigger the openness conditions," said Richard Whitt, Google's Washington telecommunications and media counsel.The auction raised more than $19 billion, far more than expected. Still, some critics said the auction failed to promote competition, as it solidified the positions of AT&T and Verizon Wireless, the two biggest carriers, who won a majority of the licenses. Some economists and others remain critical of the way the auction was set up, pointing out that among other things, two groups of frequencies, known as the A and B blocks, sold at much higher prices than the C block.Ralph de la Vega, president and chief executive of AT&T's wireless unit, said in a news conference Thursday that his company was pleased with the auction's outcome. But he noted that the Google-backed conditions on the C block had an effect on pricing."People put a premium on spectrum that is not encumbered by excessive regulations," Mr. de la Vega said.Verizon Wireless has scheduled a news conference for Friday morning to discuss its plans.In an interview late Thursday, the F.C.C. chairman, Kevin J. Martin, once again called the auction a success. "What was important was not only the success of the auction from a money standpoint but also the ability to have an open-access platform that I think is going to transform the whole wireless industry," Mr. Martin said.From a windowless "war room" at Google's headquarters in Mountain View, Calif., the small auction team placed bids electronically. Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive, and the founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, visited frequently.For much of the first week, Google gradually topped its own bids. With no competitors emerging, anxiety grew."There were definitely some people at the company that had cold feet," said Larry Alder, a product manager in Google's auction team.The team, which had persuaded Google's board last summer to back the company's bid, was asked again to make its case to top executives and the board."People had to be convinced that it was the right business decision," Mr. Alder said.Google declined to discuss what it would have done had it won the licenses. But it strongly suggested that it would not have become a wireless operator. Instead it would have formed partnerships with other companies. Still, after placing a $4.71 billion bid early on Jan. 24, meeting the reserve price, members of the team remained in a state of high alert and anxiety."We kept hitting the 'refresh' button on the browser" to see if others would bid higher, said Minnie Ingersoll, another product manager on the auction team. No one topped Google's bid that day or the following day, a Friday, and Google executives went into the Super Bowl weekend thinking they might end up owning the C block licenses after all."There was a feeling that we were picking up something at a great price," Mr. Alder said.If Google felt it had a bargain, it wasn't by much. The company declined to top the $4.74 billion bid that Verizon finally placed the following Tuesday."If Google had won a license, there was only downside risk for them," said Gregory L. Rosston, a former F.C.C. official and senior fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research. "Now they can just spend $1 million a year on a law firm to ensure Verizon lives up to the openness requirements."
