THE law of large numbers is frustrating for big companies.A $100 million company whose sales climb by $50 million has increased revenue by 50 percent. A $10 billion company, with the same $50 million gain, has  bumped up sales only one half of one percent.As a result, argues Andrew S. Grove, the former chief executive of Intel, huge companies end up paying for their success."The reward is that they get big," he writes in Portfolio magazine. "The punishment is that when they get big, it gets harder and harder for them to grow. And then their investors pile on the abuse."Mr. Grove, now a lecturer at Stanford's business school and a senior adviser at Intel, suggests an antidote: large, successful firms can engage in what he calls "cross-boundary disruption.""Under certain conditions a firm can create a new growth spurt for itself by entering an entirely different industry," he writes. "The target industry must be stagnant and populated with companies that cling to doing business the way they always have."MANAGEMENT MODELS Is there a formal model that companies can  follow to grow internally? Robert C. Wolcott and Michael J. Lippitz, both associated with Northwestern University's business school, list in an article in  the M.I.T. Sloan Management Review  the following four models:¶Opportunist. The company provides no formal process to follow. Various departments and individuals work on their own ideas and then seek corporate financing. This is what happens at Zimmer Holdings, a medical device company with more than $3 billion in sales.¶Enabler. The company provides clear criteria for the sorts of things it would like developed, application guidelines for financing and support from senior management, then leaves it to employees to come up with new ideas. This, the authors say, is the model Google employs.¶Producer. "A few companies such as I.B.M., Motorola and Cargill pursue corporate entrepreneurship by establishing and supporting formal organizations with significant dedicated funds or active influence over business unit funding."¶Advocate. A company "strongly evangelizes" for corporate entrepreneurship but, as is the case  at DuPont, leaves it up to the individual business units to provide financing and manage the process.CHANGED FOR GOOD Radical transformation efforts inside big companies fail for any number of reasons, among them  insufficient resources devoted to the task, a loss of interest by the chief executive or naysayers who are allowed to stay in place.Two McKinsey consultants argue that focusing on two areas can improve the chances that a company will change for the better.The chief executive  should set "an appropriate and inspiring aspiration" and then help mobilize "the flow of energy and ideas needed to drive the organization forward," argue Josep Isern and Caroline Pung, writing in The McKinsey Quarterly.Leaders must define the objective  at the outset, delineating clear initiatives and painting a vivid picture of what success will look like, they contend."A good transformation story bridges the gap between top management and the rest of the organization," they write. "Typically, using metaphor and analogies to explain what is at stake, it addresses three key aspects: the case for change, the challenges and opportunities ahead and the impact of change on the individuals."FINAL TAKE Marketers take note: Some 77 percent of Americans ages 49 to  55, Prevention writes — citing research from the McNeil Consumer Healthcare division of Johnson & Johnson — believe that "50 is the new 40." PAUL B. BROWN, 53SOMETIMES the simplest investing strategies are also the best.One example is  investing in companies that have announced they are buying back their own stock. As Kiplinger's writes, "When companies are bullish on their stocks, you should be, too."That's a bit exuberant, of course, since there are no guarantees. But David Fried, who edits The Buyback Letter, a newsletter that looks for opportunities among companies that repurchase their stock, explained to the magazine why investing in buybacks often works."The obvious reason is that when companies buy back their stock, they reduce the shares outstanding and increase earnings per share," he said. "What's less obvious is that companies typically buy back shares at advantageous times; they know things that you or I may not. They're the ultimate insiders."Stocks that Mr. Fried recommends are Safeco, which has bought back almost 14 percent of its shares over the past year and has announced it will buy 12 percent more; Ann Taylor, which has bought back 15 percent of its stock; and SkyWest, which announced an 8 percent buyback in June.SPY PROFITABLYAlthough the primary objective of In-Q-Tel, the venture capital fund run by the C.I.A., is to provide the agency with a first look at promising technologies, there seems to be an unintended side benefit.The fund is making money."In 2005, In-Q-Tel sold for $12 million investments that had cost $1.96 million," Kambiz Foroohar writes in Bloomberg Markets.The fund focuses on finding technologies that can fight terrorism and counter biological, chemical and nuclear weapons. The "Q" in its name is in homage to the weapons designer Q in the James Bond novels by Ian Fleming, the fund's legal counsel says."Since In-Q-Tel was founded in 1999, the firm has reviewed more than 6,300 business plans for everything from identity-recognition software to nano-sized electronic circuits," Mr. Foroohar writes. "Many proposals came in through its Web site. In-Q-Tel has invested about $200 million into more than 100 companies, beating traditional V.C. investors to technologies such as the mapping software that's become Google Earth."I OWE, I OWEThe article in Fast Company on Mint, a Web site that focuses on young adults who need help in managing their money, is worth reading for quotations like this from the 26-year-old founder, Aaron Patzer: "Your parents say 'balance your checkbook,' but you don't have to anymore," thanks to all the online tools available.But what is more compelling are the statistics that the author, Anya Kamenetz, has included in the article. Consider these:¶On average, "Americans under 35 spend 16 percent more than they earn."¶The median household income for people under 34 in 2005 was $48,405. From  2000 to 2005, that figure fell nearly 6 percent, according to the Census Bureau.¶The average credit card debt for college seniors in 2005 was $2,864."This demographic, in sum, is sorely in need of an easy-to-use solution to their ample money woes," Ms. Kamenetz writes. That explains why a number of money-management Web sites — Geezeo, Spendview and Wesabe among them — have started recently.FINAL TAKEPerhaps this is not the best approach to financial planning: some 68 percent of adults say they avoid news about the cost of retirement, Money magazine writes, citing a survey by Bankrate.com, a financial Web site. "Sure that big sum needed to pay for retirement sounds scary," the magazine writes, "but the head-in-the-sand coping strategy won't help. Still, it may explain the paradox of how so many Americans say they worry about retirement and they've done no planning for it."Yes, it is a cliché. And no, the boss does not always act as if it were true, but employees really can be a company's most important asset.However,  employees are sometimes less productive than a manager would like, and if the boss's relationship with them goes sour, they can end up suing the company.What is perhaps most surprising about the "Top Tips for Avoiding Legal Trouble With Employees"  written by  Amy DelPo, a lawyer, and Lisa Guerin, an editor at  nolo.com, a Web site that provides legal information, is how much of the advice comes down to common sense.These are among their suggestions:¶ Show your employees respect. "Workers who are deprived of dignity, who are humiliated or who are treated in ways that are just plain mean are more likely to look for some revenge through the legal system — and juries are more likely to sympathize with them."¶ Be consistent. Hold everyone to the same standards.¶ Keep good records. "If a worker sues you, you'll have to not only remember and explain what happened, but also prove that your version of the story is accurate."¶ Perform regular reviews. "Performance evaluations are your early warning system regarding employment problems — and your proof that you acted reasonably, in case you end up in court."IN WRITING In "101 Sample Write-Ups for Documenting Employee Performance Problems" (Amacom, 1999) the author, Paul Falcone, a human resource executive, covers everything from disciplining probationary employees to how to communicate senior-level firings. It even comes with a CD-ROM that includes all the sample forms.Obviously, managers will want to run these by their company's lawyers before doing anything, but it seems like a solid place to start.HARD TO HANDLE "An employee who is difficult to manage can make your life absolutely miserable," BusinessTown.com, a Web site devoted to small business, notes. "They can be every bit as disruptive to the forward progress of your company as an employee who lacks the skills or initiative to do the job well."Do not confront a difficult employee, the Web site advises, but woo the worker, difficult though it may be. "Go out to lunch and try to develop a positive rapport with the person. Often there is some issue that is causing the negative behavior."It could be as simple as the worker does not feel appreciated, or there could be a personal problem that is spilling over into the workplace.Find out what the problem is, and help if possible. If  you cannot help or the behavior does not change, the article says, you need to take appropriate action.TALK IT OUT Invariably, many employer-employee problems stem from a lack of communication, and the problem, says Monte Enbysk, an editor at Microsoft.com could be you, not the employee.To get better at communication, Mr. Enbysk suggests the following: listen closely, schedule time for one-on-one meetings with employees (you want to communicate face to face as much as possible to make sure nothing gets misunderstood in e-mail messages or memos) and be consistent about what you want employees to concentrate on.Perhaps hardest of all is to have employees evaluate you on a regular basis."It will engender loyalty, and likely make you a better boss," he writes. "Listen to what the employee has to say, ask questions where appropriate, get the employee's suggestions on how you could improve and then pledge to consider it. You are likely not to agree with everything said, at least initially. But take it all under advisement. Your initial reaction might be to reject the feedback completely. Bad move. Tell him you will take some time to think about the criticism, and get back to him later. Then do so."LAST CALL One way to handle difficult employees is not to hire them in the first place.The people behind Funny2com, a humor Web site, promise that people really did write the following on employment applications when asked to describe their career objectives:"To acquire a creative development position within the entertainment industry that would utilize my vast (2 years) technical experience.""My goal is to be a meteorologist. But since I have no training in meteorology, I suppose I should try stock brokerage.""I demand a salary commiserate  with my extensive experience."No word on whether they got hired. TINA ERICSON'S new company, Mamaisms Gear, has not shipped any products yet, but she predicts that sales will grow rapidly to $100,000 next year, $1 million by 2010 and ultimately to tens or hundreds of millions of dollars.She plans to  sell everything from  $25 T-shirts emblazoned with "Mamaisms" like "Mama Says ...Watch your mouth" to light-fabric Hot Mama pajamas for women who suffer from hot flashes and  a BYOB  line of reusable containers, including  a Bring Your Own Box for restaurant leftovers and to start a  Web site for women that she believes will attract advertisers.The Web site for the venture in Wilmington, N.C.,  (www.mamaismsgear.com), began Wednesday, and  1,200 T-shirts that arrived from a manufacturer in Turkey two weeks ago  have been stamped with the "Mama Says" slogans and are ready to be shipped.But are her plans too ambitious? Neal Thornberry, who teaches business management at Babson College and is the author of "Lead Like an Entrepreneur," says he is impressed by her enthusiasm,  essential for starting a business. But he also sounds a note of caution. He points out that about 80 percent of start-ups fail within the first two years."Her projections seem based too much on wishful thinking," Mr. Thornberry said. "She has a great idea, but we don't know yet if this is a great opportunity."It should be illuminating to hear back from her six months from now on whether she has had to lower her expectations, and if so, by how much.Right now, Ms. Ericson's expectations run high. She says she believes that Mamaisms Gear may someday  become a household name and a force for good.She wants to set an example of philanthropy, she says, by  donating 5 percent of profits to the Parenting Place, an outreach program in Wilmington for troubled families.Mamaisms is just part of the story because  Ms. Ericson  is also starting another company.She already owns a consulting firm that specializes in online marketing. It is small  —  she works out of her home and earns, she says,  $175,000 a year.  This month, she plans to sign a partnership agreement with two and perhaps three people to create a company called Shout Option Marketing to do consulting for the financial sector, with an emphasis on options trading and futures trading services."Say you publish an investment newsletter," Ms. Ericson said, "and want to grow your subscriber base and revenue but don't want to hire a copy editor, designer, assistant marketing director and so forth. We'll provide a turnkey solution. We'll write the copy, do the positioning, do the branding, the marketing, everything you need."She believes she has found a lucrative niche that no other company has exploited, and is confident she can build it quickly. Already, she says, she has signed up 10 clients.And while she is the chief executive  of both enterprises,   she does not expect the dual jobs to wear her out. She actually likes working 15-hour days, she says, and returning home from business trips to the West Coast at 4 a.m., as happened recently. Besides, she adds, being in charge has been a natural role for her going back to the time a nun at her parochial school gave her the nickname "the ringleader.""I'm a hypersocial person," she said. "I'm a networker. Both my companies are extensions of my personality."She also has two children, Sean, 7, and Ingrid, 5. But  her husband, Adam,  agreed upon the arrival of his first child  to step out of his career as a book buyer and become a stay-at-home dad.Mr. Thornberry of Babson College says she has more going for her than just her passion. "She has a real job  —  a backup plan that allows her to play around a lot, and learn while she makes mistakes."Even so, he saw it as a risky investment for now. For one thing, Mamaisms Gear appears to him "fragmented and unfocused," he said. "If there is a unified theme, it seems to be, you can trust the Mamaisms Gear brand and advice. But it takes a long time to build trust in a brand."He went on: "What's her one-minute elevator pitch to a potential investor? At this stage, I think she'd be hard pressed to do that." However,  he said, "she's on the right track. She's going to get her hands dirty and test the market. She will probably learn a lot more over the next six months about what the real opportunities are. If so, outside investment will come."Ms. Ericson says she did her homework before plunging into Mamaisms Gear. She and a partner, Jane Chaucer, a stay-at-home mother with a creative bent (she invented a foam-rubber stabilizing pad for infant car seats that produces a steady stream of licensing fees), wore prototypes of their T-shirts emblazoned with "Mama Says" admonishments and were stopped wherever they went by women who said, "My mama told me that 50 times a day."Together, they have put $35,000 into the venture. They have also persuaded Ms. Ericson's sister, Katie Atkinson, a national marketing director for an online company, and Ms. Chaucer's sister, Kathleen Smith,  to help out.Partnerships are known for foundering in disputes over uneven workloads.  Ms. Ericson acknowledges that, but says, "We're very candid about dividing the duties fairly and making sure everybody pulls her own weight."At present, she is doing most of the work, from writing content for her Web site to lining up  contributors. So far, she has pressed into service a human resources specialist, a lawyer, a real estate professional, a pediatrician and a journalist.She has no illusions about the difficulties  she faces. She and Ms. Chaucer cannot afford to rent space, so they will work out of their homes. They are also feeling the usual stings of entrepreneurial misfortune."You think you have everything covered, and then details pop up that you hadn't thought about," she said. "Like color choices, whether the shirts will shrink if you wash them in hot water and put them through a hot drying cycle. I'm a believer, but I underestimated the steps from A to B." As a result, she said, "We're being extra careful to get things right the first time around. To go through the process of trial and error before the launch, not after."Senate and House Democrats attacked the Republican-led National Labor Relations Board at a Congressional hearing on Thursday, saying its recent decisions had favored employers over workers.The Democrats focused on 61 board decisions issued in September that, among other things, made it harder for unions to organize workers and harder for illegally fired employees to collect back pay."This board has undermined collective bargaining at every turn, putting the power of the law behind lawbreakers, not law victims," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.At the hearing, Wilma B. Liebman, a Democratic member of the five-member board, which oversees unionization rules for workers in private industry, repeatedly clashed with the board's Republican chairman, Robert J. Battista."Virtually every recent policy choice by the board," Ms. Liebman said, "impedes collective bargaining, creates obstacles to union representation or favors employer interests."Mr. Battista, whose term expires Sunday, took strong issue with the Democrats' criticism."Notwithstanding the special interest group rhetoric we may be hearing about the N.L.R.B., the agency is carrying out its statutory mission," said Mr. Battista, a labor lawyer from Detroit who represented many corporations.He said the labor board had significantly cut delays in handling unfair labor practice cases and had collected $110 million in back pay last year for workers who had been improperly retaliated against for union activity.The White House has remained mum on whether it will reappoint Mr. Battista. A senior Democratic Senate staff member said yesterday that Democratic senators were likely to resist confirming him.Republican leaders mocked the combined hearing by House and Senate members, saying it was improper to summon members of an adjudicatory panel before Congress to defend their decisions. The Republicans asserted that the hearing was reward to organized labor for helping Democrats in their campaigns.Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the ranking Republican on the House Education and Labor Committee, said, "Today's hearing is a transparent attempt by Democratic leaders to appease the labor union special interests that helped put them in office by attacking decisions of the N.L.R.B. that they do not view as sufficiently pro-union."Labor leaders are pressing the Democratic presidential candidates and Congressional Democrats to back legislation that would make it far easier for workers to unionize.In the decision that came under fiercest attack yesterday, the labor board ruled 3 to 2 in September that when a company agrees to grant union recognition after a majority of workers sign cards or a petition saying they want one, an election must be held — in effect vacating the union recognition — if 30 percent of the workers sign another petition within 45 days saying they want a vote to get rid of the union.Ms. Liebman and the Democratic legislators said that the decision showed an anti-union tilt and that it gave 30 percent of the workers the power to overrule majority sentiment. Mr. Battista defended the ruling, saying it merely gave workers the chance to vote in a secret ballot election on whether they wanted to keep the union.Several Democrats accused the board's majority of hypocrisy because on the same day it decided this case it issued another ruling that allowed a company to cut off recognition of its union after a majority of workers submitted a petition seeking a vote to get rid of it. The Democrats asked why the labor board did not insist on a secret ballot election under such circumstances.The union movement's discontent with the labor board has grown so intense that several hundred union sympathizers demonstrated in front of the board's Washington headquarters last month, chanting that it should be "shut down for renovations."Labor leaders say they would be happy if the board did nothing until a Democrat was in the White House. In addition to the expiration of Mr. Battista's term Sunday, the appointments of two other members end later this month when the Congressional session ends.An aide to the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, said the senator was considering holding pro forma sessions of the Senate to prevent President Bush from renaming Mr. Battista as a recess appointment.At Thursday's hearing, a hotel housekeeper, Feliza Ryland, testified about her fight to win back pay after the board ruled in 2001 that she and 43 other workers had been illegally fired in 1996 in a labor dispute with Grosvenor Resorts in Orlando, Fla."It has now been more than 11 years since I was unlawfully fired," Ms. Ryland said, "and I am still waiting to see the back pay, still waiting to see justice."In a decision in September, the board sharply reduced the workers' back pay, saying they forfeited the right to full back pay because they picketed for several weeks in an effort to get their jobs back instead of looking for new jobs. The board's majority wrote that giving full back pay would "reward idleness." MAXJET HALTS TRADING  Holding tickets or planning travel on MaxJet? The airline says it continues to accept bookings and has no plans to change its schedule after temporarily suspending trading in its shares in London on Friday. The two-year-old all business-class carrier is reported to be seeking new financing. Like all airlines, MaxJet is struggling with soaring fuel costs. Based at Washington Dulles International Airport, MaxJet is one of four international discount all business-class discount airlines to start up in the last two years. It flies from New York, Las Vegas and Los Angeles to London Stansted Airport. In a note  to investors yesterday, Douglas McNeill of Blue Oar Securities in London said MaxJet was in trouble partly because "punctuality statistics and anecdotal evidence suggest that customer service is well short of the required level."  Meanwhile, British Air said it planned to start new all premium-class service in May between various European cities and cities in the United States, using 757 aircraft configured with business-class and premium-economy seats only.DAYJET EXPANDS  DayJet, an air taxi service, expanded its per-seat, on-demand service yesterday to 28 new destinations across Alabama, Florida, Georgia and Mississippi, adding to its five initial departure airports in Boca Raton, Gainesville, Lakeland, Pensacola and Tallahassee, Fla., which started  two months ago.  BOARDING PASS ON A SCREEN  In a test, Continental boarding passes that can be displayed as e-mail messages on cellphone or other personal electronic screens, rather than paper printouts, are being accepted for departures at Houston Intercontinental Terminals B, C and E. The boarding pass bar code must be clearly visible and able to be read by a scanner at the security checkpoint, Continental said. The option to use mobile boarding passes is restricted to passengers on nonstop domestic flights.ET CETERA  Silverjet, the discount all business-class airline that flies between Newark and London, started a corporate loyalty program: one free flight for every 10 bought by a company.  ...  Kimpton Hotels reported a 30 percent increase this year in visitors from Britain. ... A new 800-number service provides flight status and gate information for 141 domestic and international airlines. It is 1-800-Flights. A brief advertisement plays before flight information is provided. ... JetBlue added four Turner Broadcasting System channels and the Big Ten Network to its in-seat DirecTV programming. ...  The San Jose Fairmont hotel installed two big plasma screens in the lobby showing arrivals and departure times at San Jose International Airport. ... Star Alliance plans to open a  lounge for premium passengers next spring at Paris Charles De Gaulle Airport.  JOE SHARKEY Ciara Anne Burnham and Peter Dwight DeNunzio were married yesterday. The Rev. J. C. Austin  officiated at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York.Ms. Burnham, 40, is keeping her name. A senior managing director at Evercore Partners, an investment banking firm in New York, she develops new  business and helps manage existing business. She is  a director of the Lincoln Center Institute, which provides arts programming for teachers and students. She graduated cum laude from Princeton and received an M.B.A. from Columbia.The bride is a daughter of Anne Mullin Burnham and James B. Burnham of Pittsburgh. The bride's father, who was a representative on the board of the World Bank during the Reagan administration, is a professor of finance at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh. Her mother, a freelance editor and writer, is the president of the Pittsburgh Irish and Classical Theater and  a director of the Ireland Institute, a Pittsburgh organization that promotes economic, political and social development in Ireland.Mr. DeNunzio, 48, is the president of Draftfcb, an advertising and marketing services unit in New York of the Interpublic Group of Companies. He also graduated from Princeton and received an M.B.A. from Columbia.The bridegroom is a son of Jean Ames DeNunzio and Ralph D. DeNunzio of Riverside, Conn. His father, a former chairman of the board of governors of the New York Stock Exchange and a former chairman and chief executive of Kidder, Peabody & Company, is the president of Harbor Point Associates, an investment and consulting firm  in New York.The bride's previous marriage ended in divorce, as did the bridegroom's.NEW DELHI — If it's Monday, it must be Romania — and Finland and Minnesota.A soaring economy and crumbling trade barriers are making India a "must visit" destination for foreign politicians and executives. The crush of visitors, often first-timers but also companies seeking to expand their existing operations here, lands daily. They all hope to sign deals, find local partners, sell their wares or just soak up the contradictions that characterize the world's largest democracy, a singular melding of chaos and opportunity.Bald demographics make India impossible to ignore, and the slowdown in the United States economy adds to its appeal. About half of the country's 1.1 billion people are under 25, and its rapidly expanding middle class is already estimated to be as large as the entire population of the United States. A rocketing stock market and a fast-growing class of the superrich add to its appeal.Trade experts compare the rising tide of interest to the wave of outsiders who flooded China a few years ago. This year, Felipe Calderón Hinojosa became the first Mexican head of state to visit India in 22 years. Angela Merkel, the chancellor of Germany, President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., the United States Treasury secretary, have all paid their respects.But official delegations are arriving from unexpected corners of the globe, too. On a recent typical Monday in New Delhi, the government played host to Minnesotan businessmen led by Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Romanian delegation led by the senior counselor in the ministry of small and medium-size companies, and Finns led by the minister of trade and development.Privatization of major industries, a quickly Westernizing, youthful population and the prevalence of English draw a wildly diverse group of prospectors.On a recent visit to Mumbai,  Donald Trump Jr. pledged to invest in real estate there, Jägermeister held parties in New Delhi to introduce consumers to its herbal liquor, Prudential Financial partnered with the Indian real estate giant DLF to create an asset management business and Fiat announced tentative plans to import the Alfa Romeo.India is like the "proverbial bus in today's business world," said Suhel Seth, managing partner with Counselage India, a New Delhi-based branding consultancy. "No one knows where it is going, no one knows whether there is space on it for them  — but no one wants to miss that bus."Given the vast and varied interest, Indian business leaders can sound overwhelmed. "Iceland is suddenly on our radar screen," said Supriya Banerji, the deputy director general of the Confederation of Indian Industry, one of the country's largest trade groups. "Malta is coming in and Cyprus is clamoring for us." So are Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Vietnam, Kazakhstan and Mozambique, all of which have sent delegations.It is too soon to tell what impact the visits will have economically. They rarely yield immediate results, and sometimes they produce negative reactions. India's mix of poverty and areas where vast, fetid slums edge newly refurbished international airports and barefoot children beg outside of $500-a-night hotels, has left more than one Western visitor aghast.The realities of India often surprise even first-time visitors who have studied the country. Signs of social upheaval — strikes, dangerous roads and electricity that flickers off even in the most luxurious hotels  — are common. One recent morning in a five-star New Delhi hotel, bleary-eyed Minnesota executives puzzled out a scene from the night before. As they had  returned from a visit to the Taj Mahal, thousands of protesters blocked the road, police conspicuously absent. The Americans did not make it back to New Delhi until after midnight."We learned a lot," said Jonathan B. Farber, president of global underwriting for Travelers, the insurance company, picking his words. It was interesting to see "how the logistics worked themselves out," he said, recalling that as protesters laid down in one lane of the highway, two-way traffic seemed to intuitively share the other lane.In spite of such hiccups, most visitors are optimistic about India's future and the opportunities it offers their companies. To date, "trade has been rather modest," acknowledged Asko Numminen, the Finnish ambassador, tall and blue-eyed, in an understated gray suit that complemented his embassy's clean Nordic lines. In a nod to his host country, his tie depicted  a field of elephants.In Finland, Mr. Numminen said, "we are speaking about the 'India phenomena.'"  He said companies, universities and research centers were looking toward India because it had the "biggest pool of human resources in the world." Since the beginning of September, Mr. Numminen has traveled twice to Chennai to open factories for Finnish companies, and Finnair now has 12 direct flights a week from Helsinki to India.Members of foreign royalty are also making official visits to India  — even royalty whose ancestors were involved in colonization of the subcontinent centuries ago. Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands arrived in October, with eight of her country's most important chief executives, on her second visit to India.Warner Rootliep, general manager for the Air France-KLM Group in the region, said the trip allowed the executives a "great opportunity to raise some questions directly to the prime minister and other ministers present."Showing off a knowledge of India is often de rigueur on the visits. When Gov. Jon Huntsman Jr. of Utah came in October with university administrators and biotechnology executives to pitch business opportunities with Utah, he boasted over lunch with Indian industrialists that he had celebrated Diwali, the most important Hindu festival, at the governor's mansion back home.Grinning, he said the relationship between the United States and India had "gone from being flat as a chapati to sweet as gulab jamun," referring to a flatbread and a  local dessert.Mr. Pawlenty of Minnesota started his speech in New Delhi with "namaste," the Hindi greeting, though he was quick to address the obvious question: What could a group of Minnesotan and Indian businessmen have in common?He said Indians tended to like spicy food, while some Minnesotans considered milk spicy, and called the contrasting weather a clear divide. But Mr. Pawlenty noted similarities too: both Minnesota and India broke away from Great Britain, both play forms of hockey, and rural life and farming are a backbone of each.To be sure, India remains in China's shadow. Because of weak infrastructure, a fractious political climate and other hurdles, India's foreign trade and investment figures are dwarfed by China's, where foreign direct investment was nearly $70 billion in 2006. But many foreign companies and governments increasingly equate the two when they talk about the growth markets of the future.The government here expects foreign direct investment to grow rapidly next year, to some $30 billion, from $19.5 billion, and the economy to grow at 9 percent for the third year in a row.And India definitely tops China on one front. Because of increasing business travel demand, American Express predicts, hotel room rates here will increase more than anywhere else in the world in 2008: 34 to 38 percent for midrange hotels and 38 to 41 percent for the best hotels.
