An article last Sunday about young workers in the financial industry deciding to forgo M.B.A. programs referred incorrectly to a designation that some of these workers are pursuing. It is C.F.A., for chartered financial analyst, not certified financial adviser. And while that designation requires study toward a series of examinations, it is not a degree program.Some of the nation's biggest insurance companies will urge the Senate Finance Committee today to change rules that enable some of their competitors to avoid billions of dollars in federal taxes by sending money to themselves in Bermuda and other tax havens.At issue are federal rules that allow insurance premiums to be shifted from the United States to offshore affiliates — which reduces taxes — and allow the proceeds to be invested tax free, increasing the profit to parent companies. The companies that do this say they are following the letter of the tax code.The core of the dispute is an unusual tax treaty with Bermuda. It allows insurance companies based on the island to deduct from their American taxes premiums that their subsidiaries in the United States collect from American customers and send back to the headquarters abroad. In Bermuda and other tax havens, the money is invested tax free.This money is moved, under the law, through the purchase of reinsurance by the affiliates from their parent companies.Americans and American businesses paid $499 billion for property and casualty insurance in 2006, nearly 4 cents out of each dollar of the gross national product.Nearly all insurance companies buy reinsurance, or insurance on their own policies, to reduce the amount they have to pay to cover claims. Reinsurance is a tax-deductible business expense.But the insurers that want the tax law changed contend that when an American affiliate buys reinsurance from its Bermuda parent, the company is merely moving money from one pocket to another.  A result, they say, is an unfair profit for the offshore company and less taxes paid to the federal government.Usually, insurers try to keep business expenses to a minimum. But for those companies with units in the United States and Bermuda, the more reinsurance they purchase from the parent company, the lower their United States taxes and the more money the parent company is able to invest tax free.In a report issued Monday, the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, which advises the Senate Finance Committee, said that from 2001 through 2006, purchases by American subsidiaries of reinsurance from their parent companies in Bermuda rose by $16.6 billion, to $32.5 billion.That is more than 20 times the rate of growth in similar spending by companies based in the United States, which do not qualify to transfer money as their Bermuda competitors do. Their purchases from unrelated offshore companies rose just $700 million, to $22.2 billion.Insurers like Liberty Mutual, Hartford and Chubb, which cannot easily capitalize on the rule, want Congress to close what they see as a loophole so they can better compete with rivals like Ace, XL and Arch.William R. Berkley, the chief executive of W. R. Berkley and a leader of the coalition of insurers appealing to Congress for a change, said that unless the law is changed, "in 10 or 15 years all the domestic property and casualty insurance companies are going to have to go offshore."Mr. Berkley and the others in the coalition are using two appeals to lawmakers: moral outrage and threats to take their money to Bermuda themselves."I think it's morally wrong," he said, "but if we can't get the government to change the rule, we may ultimately have to do it."ACE, XL and other Bermuda companies are fighting back under the banner of the Association of Bermuda Insurers and Reinsurers. Other companies reinsuring American subsidiaries' policies through parents in Bermuda include Everest Re, Arch Capital, Endurance Specialty Holdings and Allied World Assurance.ACE and some of the other companies declined to comment on the tax issue. But through their trade group they contend that they are doing nothing wrong and are following the United States tax code. Moreover, they say, the tax law is a valuable tool for attracting foreign investment to the United States and should not be changed. The foreign investments, the companies say, are far more important to the American economy than any taxes forgone in the transactions."If a company in Germany is making widgets to sell to buyers in the United States, the profits on those widgets are not taxed in the United States but in Germany," said Kenneth J. Kies, a tax lawyer and former chief of staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation who has worked for some of the Bermuda companies. "It's the same concept with the insurance."Donald Kramer, the chief executive of Ariel Reinsurance, plans to testify on behalf of the Bermuda insurers today. He said in an interview yesterday that critics of the tax law often overstate the benefits to Bermuda insurers. Mr. Kramer said a strong insurance industry in Bermuda helps the United States economy by providing coverage for catastrophes like Hurricane Katrina that is otherwise scarce. Also, he said, a change in the tax law would probably mean higher insurance prices for many Americans."If you tried to shut this down," he said, "the U.S. economy would suffer."Ending the tax treaty with Bermuda is among the solutions proposed in the report by the joint tax committee.Congressional aides said several members of the Senate Finance Committee favor revising the federal tax law to force companies like Ace and XL, which have become important insurers of corporate America and are based in Bermuda, to pay taxes at the standard corporate rate of about 35 percent. Last year, Ace reported a federal tax rate of 17.9 percent. XL's rate was 11.4 percent, and Arch Capital Group's was 3.4 percent.Insurance experts say one reason the companies in the coalition have not moved to Bermuda, now one of the world's most important insurance centers, is that those companies have been in business for decades, and to reorganize in Bermuda they would have to pay billions of dollars in capital gains taxes.On the other hand, the companies that are reaping the tax benefits are relative upstarts. ACE and XL, for example, were started in Bermuda in the early 1980s. Dozens of insurers are now based in Bermuda, including some transplants from London. A few Bermuda insurance companies were started with largely American financing after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to capitalize on the soaring prices of property and casualty insurance.Because companies using the Bermuda arrangement earn bigger after-tax profits, they enjoy a higher stock price relative to their profits and they build financial muscle much more quickly. They could, instead, charge lower premiums to gain market share, but executives on both sides of the dispute said that had not been the practice.The committee report does not specify the federal taxes forgone, but if the premiums sent to sister companies in Bermuda earn a 10 percent annual return, then each $30 billion transferred to a sister company in Bermuda or other tax haven costs the government — on investment earnings alone — about $1 billion a year. That loss compounds as more premiums are moved out of the United States and investment returns swell offshore assets.In 18 years, the committee said, the assets of Bermuda insurers grew tenfold, to $172.7 billion in 2001. The report showed, by other measures, that since then the transfer of funds to Bermuda has been accelerating.Judge Michael B. Mukasey, if confirmed by the Senate as attorney general, will recuse himself from any matters involving his close friend Rudolph W. Giuliani, the White House said last night, suggesting he would do so with the ongoing criminal investigation of Bernard B. Kerik.Mr. Kerik, the New York City police commissioner during part of Mr. Giuliani's mayoral term, was a leading figure in Mr. Giuliani's consulting firm and a friend of his. He has been under investigation by federal prosecutors in New York for over a year.Any possible criminal charges against Mr. Kerik could have political implications for Mr. Giuliani, who is the leading candidate for the Republican presidential nomination.Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman, said in a telephone interview last night that if Judge Mukasey is confirmed, there was no question that he would recuse himself from any matter  involving Mr. Giuliani. "Because of their close friendship, he has to recuse himself," Mr. Fratto said.Judge Mukasey did not respond to telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment, and a Giuliani campaign spokeswoman declined to comment.Federal prosecutors from the office of the United States attorney in Manhattan, Michael J. Garcia, have been examining a range of accusations against Mr. Kerik, including bribery, tax fraud and wiretap conspiracy, people briefed on the inquiry said. Some alleged crimes were said to be committed while Mr. Kerik served in city posts under Mr. Giuliani, others while he was in the Giuliani consulting business, according to the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case.Mr. Fratto would not discuss the Kerik case or any other  matters that might require Judge Mukasey, a widely respected jurist, to recuse himself, nor the specific reasons he might do so.But among the issues the judge would face is one involving his son, Marc Mukasey, a former prosecutor who works at the Bracewell & Giuliani law firm. Mr. Mukasey was among the lawyers who advised Mr. Giuliani last year as he prepared for his April testimony before a Bronx grand jury that investigated Mr. Kerik on state charges, a person who was briefed on that matter said.A spokeswoman for Bracewell & Giuliani declined to comment.In that case, Mr. Kerik pleaded guilty in State Supreme Court in the Bronx to two misdemeanor counts and admitted accepting $165,000 in renovations to his Bronx apartment from a construction firm accused of having mob ties. The company, which has denied any ties to organized crime, had sought Mr. Kerik's help in getting a license to do work in the city.The federal investigation appears to be moving forward, with a grand jury in White Plains hearing evidence in the case in recent weeks, several people briefed on the matter said.In February, federal prosecutors offered to end their inquiry in exchange for a guilty plea from Mr. Kerik that would have included two years' prison time, but he declined the offer, his lawyer, Kenneth M. Breen, and others have said. Mr. Breen, of Paul Hastings Janofsky and Walker LLP, said he expected the federal investigation to be concluded without any charges being filed against his client."We are confident that whomever at the Department of Justice reviews this matter will conclude that there is no case here," he said.Last year, a team of researchers added a novel twist to something known as a time-use survey. Instead of simply asking people what they had done over the course of their day, as pollsters have been doing since the 1960s, the researchers also asked how people felt during each activity. Were they happy? Interested? Tired? Stressed?Not surprisingly, men and women often gave similar answers about what they liked to do (hanging out with friends) and didn't like (paying bills).  But there were also a number of activities that produced very different reactions from the two sexes — and one of them really stands out: Men apparently enjoy being with their parents, while women find time with their mom and dad to be slightly less pleasant than doing laundry.Alan Krueger, a Princeton economist  working with four psychologists on the time-use research team, figures that there is a simple explanation for the difference. For a woman, time with her parents often resembles work, whether it's helping them pay bills or plan a family gathering. "For men, it tends to be sitting on the sofa and watching football with their dad," said Mr. Krueger, who, when not crunching data, enjoys watching the New York Giants with his father.This intriguing — if unsettling —  finding is  part of a larger story: there appears to be a growing happiness gap between men and women.Two new research papers, using very different methods, have both come to this conclusion. Betsey Stevenson  and Justin Wolfers,  economists at the University of Pennsylvania (and a couple), have looked at the traditional happiness data, in which people are simply asked how satisfied they are with their overall lives. In the early 1970s, women reported being slightly happier than men. Today, the two have switched places.Mr. Krueger, analyzing time-use studies over the last four decades, has found  an even starker pattern. Since the 1960s,  men have gradually cut back on activities they find unpleasant. They now work less and relax more.Over the same span, women have replaced housework with paid work — and, as a result, are spending almost as much time doing things they don't enjoy as in the past. Forty years ago, a typical woman spent about 23 hours  a week in an activity considered unpleasant, or 40 more minutes than a typical man. Today, with men working less, the gap is 90 minutes.These trends are reminiscent of the idea of "the second shift," the name of a 1989 book by the sociologist Arlie Hochschild, arguing that modern women effectively had to hold down two jobs. The first shift was at the office, and the second at home.But researchers who have looked at time-use data say the second-shift theory misses an important detail. Women are not actually working more than they were 30 or 40 years ago. They are instead doing different kinds of work. They're spending more time on paid work and less on cleaning and cooking.What has changed — and what seems to be the most likely explanation for the happiness trends  —  is that women now have a much longer to-do list than they once did (including helping their aging parents). They can't possibly get it all done, and many end up feeling as if they are somehow falling short.Mr. Krueger's data, for instance, shows that the average time devoted to dusting has fallen significantly in recent decades. There haven't been any dust-related technological breakthroughs, so houses are probably just dirtier than they used to be. I imagine that the new American dustiness affects women's happiness more than men's.Ms. Stevenson was recently having drinks with a business school graduate who came up with a nice way of summarizing the problem. Her mother's goals in life, the student said, were to have a beautiful garden, a well-kept house and well-adjusted children who did well in school. "I sort of want all those things, too," the student said, as Ms. Stevenson recalled, "but I also want to have a great career and have an impact on the broader world."It's telling that there is also a happiness gap between boys and girls in high school. As life has generally gotten better over the last generation — less crime, longer-living grandparents and much cooler gadgets — male high school seniors have gotten happier. About 25 percent say they are very satisfied with their lives, up from 16 percent in 1976. Roughly 22 percent of senior girls now give that answer, unchanged from the 1970s.When Ms. Stevenson and I were talking last week about possible explanations, she mentioned her "hottie theory." It's based on an April article  in this newspaper by Sara Rimer, about a group of incredibly impressive teenage girls in Newton, Mass. The girls were getting better grades than the boys, playing varsity sports, helping to run the student government and doing community service. Yet one girl who had gotten a perfect 2,400 on her college entrance exams noted that she and her friends  still felt pressure to be "effortlessly hot."As Ms. Stevenson, who's 36, said: "When I was in high school, it was clear being a hottie was the most important thing, and it's not that it's any less important today. It's that other things have become more important. And, frankly, people spent a lot of time trying to be a hottie when I was in high school. So I don't know where they find the time today."The two new papers — Mr. Krueger's will be published in the Brookings Papers on Economic Activity  and the Stevenson-Wolfers one is still in draft form — are part of a burst of happiness research in recent years. There is no question that the research  has  its limitations. Happiness, of course, is highly subjective.A big reason that women reported being happier three decades ago — despite far more discrimination — is probably that they had narrower ambitions, Ms. Stevenson says. Many compared themselves only to other women, rather than to men as well. This doesn't mean they were better off back then.But it does show just how incomplete the gender revolution has been. Although women have flooded into the work force, American society hasn't fully come to grips with the change. The United States still doesn't have universal preschool, and, in contrast to other industrialized countries, there is no guaranteed paid leave for new parents.Government policy isn't the only problem, either. Inside of families, men still haven't figured out how to shoulder their fair share of the household burden. Instead, we're spending more time on the phone and in front of the television.This weekend, I think I may volunteer to do a little dusting.Business School,  or Quicker Riches?To the Editor:Re "Bye, Bye B-School" (Sept. 16):History is full of stories about individuals who opt for short-term gains over long-term growth. But it is oversimplification to frame the choice of whether to pursue an M.B.A. as being only about foregone compensation. M.B.A.-granting institutions exist to raise the standards of management as a profession, and to provide an educational context that cultivates not only analytical skills, but also leadership abilities.In this context, future managers learn to formulate and articulate a vision that inspires, to work well in groups, to develop the employees for which they will be responsible and, ultimately, to leave an organization stronger than when they enter it.In effect, the decision to pursue an M.B.A. is as much about what one can give to an organization as it is about what one can get. It is incumbent on those of us in business and management schools to stay focused on our higher aspirations for the management profession, while ensuring that our programs create value for our students and the organizations to which they will contribute.Joel M. PodolnyNew Haven, Sept. 17The writer is dean and William S. Beinecke professor of management at the Yale School of Management.A Carbon TaxTo the Editor:Re "One Answer to Global Warming: A New Tax" (Economic View, Sept. 16), which looked at the possibility of a global carbon tax:In today's political environment — a legacy of Ronald Reagan — it's difficult, if not impossible, to raise taxes for many government activities, much less to address issues like global warming. Pigovian taxes that are intended primarily to fix specific problems are a policy wonk's delight, but in this case let's just give auto manufacturers an incentive to improve mileage and reduce pollution.Warner B. HuckHilton Head Island, S.C., Sept. 17House Calls to the HomeboundTo the Editor:"Retro Medicine: Doctors Making House Calls (for a Price)" (Sept. 23) described patients who often pay out of pocket for convenient but limited care.A more common model of house calls serves a very different purpose. Over 1,000 health professionals nationwide provide home visits to some of the estimated two million homebound Americans who cannot get to a traditional doctor's office, rather than those who prefer not to.Our academic home visit program serves over 1,100 homebound residents of Manhattan suffering from strokes, end-stage dementia, cancer, cardiac and pulmonary disease. Home visits for homebound patients are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and some commercial plans. The goal of home-based medical care is to prevent costly and unnecessary emergency-room visits, hospitalizations, and nursing home placements by providing relatively low-cost, patient-centered care to this disenfranchised population.Theresa A. Soriano, M.D, M.P.H.David Muller, M.D.Manhattan, Sept. 24Dr. Soriano is director of the Mount Sinai Visiting Doctors Program, and Dr. Muller, a co-founder of the program, is dean for medical education at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine.The M.B.A. InvestmentTo the Editor:"Bye, Bye B-School" (Sept. 16) correctly showed that an M.B.A. degree is not for everyone.The M.B.A. program was never designed as a personal get-rich-quick plan. It's about entrepreneurship, building organizations and preparing for a lifetime of principled leadership in all kinds of operations — not just on Wall Street, but around the world.For a significant number of young women and men, business school provides valuable knowledge, skills and perspectives that will transform potential into a real capacity for leadership. A rigorous M.B.A. education is an excellent long-term investment.W. Carl KesterBoston, Sept. 19The writer is a finance professor and deputy dean for academic affairs at the Harvard Business School.
