LOS ANGELES — Britney Spears's klieg-lighted meltdown sent her to the psychiatric ward twice, and left her long-divorced parents, her brother, and a SWAT team of lawyers and accountants grappling with how to protect her from predatory hangers-on, from the paparazzi who dog her every move and from her own erratic behavior.Beyond the psychodrama being played out on tabloid covers, celebrity-news shows and gossip Web sites is another serious subject for the Spears family: how to protect the millions of dollars that Ms. Spears, 26, has amassed over a decade as one of America's biggest pop music, merchandise and endorsement engines.It's impossible to say how much money she has. Published estimates of her net worth have varied wildly, up to $125 million. But one of her former financial advisers, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of his relationship with his client, estimated her current fortune at around $50 million.That's  an enormous amount, but, as Michael Jackson proved, being a wealthy cultural phenomenon doesn't make one impervious to financial disaster. Celebrities, like athletes, often have a small window to make their money, typically at a young age when they are probably not thinking about the future.As a result, many child stars like Macaulay Culkin are dragged into family squabbles over money while others — too numerous to mention — end up looking to revive their careers long after the money has run out.Ms. Spears will not run out of money anytime soon, but her longer-term prospects have taken a hit in the last year because of bizarre behavior — her public scenes, questionable parenting skills and a shaky comeback performance at the MTV Awards — and her tortured personal life after her divorce from Kevin Federline, formerly one of her backup dancers.According to court documents, her everyday finances seem to have fallen into disrepair as well. A Feb. 14 court filing put it starkly: "Members of Britney's household," it said, "have been paying for her basic necessities, including medicine, food, and other day-to-day needs."On Feb. 1, the day after Ms. Spears was involuntarily admitted for treatment at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center, her estranged father, Jamie Spears, was named her co-conservator, giving him control over her treatment, security, visitors and daily life.Mr. Spears is sharing oversight of her estate with an independent lawyer, Andrew M. Wallet, to dispel the notion that Ms. Spears's parents were making a grab for their daughter's fortune. With the court's permission, they immediately fired her business manager.Another team of lawyers was hired for the conservators and quickly set out to assess the financial damage. Yet another lawyer was appointed by the probate court, as is routine, to look out solely for Ms. Spears's interests. Ms. Spears's brother Bryan, along with a lawyer, were given control of her revocable trust, which contains all her liquid assets, so they could begin paying her bills. And Ms. Spears's criminal lawyer, Blair Berk, was said to be overseeing the whole Humpty Dumpty-like effort.All the independent lawyers aside, one cannot ignore money as a motivating factor as the estranged Spears parents joined forces. Since she first became a pop star in 1999 on the strength of her hit "Baby One More Time," she has helped her father financially.The earning power of her 16-year-old sister, Jamie Lynn, the star of "Zooey 101" on Nickelodeon, probably suffered in December when she announced her pregnancy, which also helped sink her mother's deal to write a book on parenting.What little light has been shed on Ms. Spears's finances came last May, when part of an income statement surfaced in her divorce case. It put her average monthly earnings at more than $730,000, mainly from royalties, but said she earned only $13,000 a month from investments.  (Her spending, including $102,000 a month for entertainment, gifts and vacation and $16,000 for clothes, was more eye-catching.)The nature of her investments might be unclear as well. Accountants are trying to learn whether her money was moved into overly risky investment vehicles, whether any business deals need to be undone and whether her assets were outright looted. (Her father filed a report of grand theft, according to The Los Angeles Times, asserting that paintings, jewelry and other valuables had been stripped from her Beverly Hills home).Though she is said to own large swaths of Louisiana timberland, Ms. Spears is not a real estate tycoon in the classic Hollywood sense: she owns a house in a gated hilltop community near Mulholland Drive but listed it for sale a year ago at an asking price of $7.5 million, scarcely more than the $7.2 million she paid for it.She sold a house in  Malibu last summer for $10 million after paying $6.9 million for it in 2004, and she unloaded her Lower Manhattan condominium for $4 million in 2006, after buying it for $3 million in 2002.Ms. Spears's career first began to sputter after her last major tour was cut short, nearly four years ago. Based on the strength of her first two albums, "Baby One More Time" and "Oops! I Did It Again," she received  nearly a $10 million advance for her 2003 album "In the Zone" and a net earning of $6.5 million after production costs, according to reports published after her prenuptial agreement was leaked.By contrast, she was paid $4 million for "Blackout," her latest album, according to people briefed on her affairs, but she probably took home only a fraction of that for the album, which was more than a year in the making. Ms. Spears's label, Jive Records, continues to promote singles from  "Blackout," without her active participation. (The recording industry has much experience with artists who have become incapacitated or unavailable or dead.)But digital music has been punishing for performers like Ms. Spears, one of the last to sell more than 10 million copies of an album before the shift to downloads. The first two "Blackout" singles, "Gimme More" and "Piece of Me," have sold a combined 1.54 million copies through digital services like iTunes, but industry experts say Ms. Spears might collect only $150,000 from that source.Compared with touring, albums are loss-leaders for pop stars of her magnitude. Ms. Spears's five major tours have sold some $140 million in tickets, according to PollStar, a music industry service. Her take, after deducting costs for arena rentals, equipment, crew and all those backup dancers, is much smaller.The real money is made not from ticket sales but from the sale of T-shirts, key chains, dolls and countless other Britney-branded goods."It's a gray area nobody ever focuses on," said Steve Lunt, who oversaw Ms. Spears's musical endeavors as a vice president at Jive until 2006. But, he said, merchandise revenue could be as much as or more than her share of ticket proceeds. "And that's unadulterated profit margin."At her peak, Ms. Spears earned well over $12 million for endorsing companies like Toyota, Nabisco, Kirin beer, Sketchers, Clairol and McDonald's; $9 million was from Pepsi alone.  And Ms. Spears still gets at least $2 million to $3 million a year from a perfume deal she signed with Elizabeth Arden in 2004. The company continues to build on what it has made worldwide from three Britney perfume lines. There is particularly strong demand for them in Dubai, the company says.While some of these deals remain in place, it is hard to imagine a company seeking her endorsement now except for pure shock value.For now, the people around Ms. Spears are occupied with more basic questions — about how she will live, rather than whether she might perform again. Lawyers and her parents are trying to find the appropriate middle ground between confining Ms. Spears physically and allowing her too much freedom for her own good.This is not an easy balance to strike, said one expert on conservatorships for the infirm, Marc B. Hankin, who at one point represented Brian Wilson of the Beach Boys.  "With good social support and good pharmacologists, you can help people come back to life, and a lot of people will never come back without that," he said.If Ms. Spears regains her health — and her desire to tour — will there still be an opportunity?A return would require corporate sponsors, who for the moment would be likely to shun Ms. Spears but who might come around, according to Mr. Lunt, the record executive."My gut feeling is people will still want to be associated with her," he said. "Everyone thinks there's going to be a comeback at some point. You could mention her name in Afghanistan, Israel, Greece or South Africa, and everyone knows who she is. You can't buy that."The people around Ms. Spears say she is not so far gone as a star. "She's not someone who can't put the tools back together and function," said one such person, who because of a relationship with Ms. Spears spoke on the condition of anonymity."Because we're so incredibly fickle as a society, the perfect entertainment is someone who's in the bottomless pit and rising again," the person said. "If she's together, fit, beautiful and on her game, it'll be just printing money."IN the summer of 2005, Miles Gilburne and Nina Zolt had long talks over dinner in their Washington home about what to do next. For more than six years, Mr. Gilburne, a former AOL executive, and his wife, Ms. Zolt, a former lawyer, had supported a philanthropy that used books and online tools to enhance skills of inner-city students.The program, which Ms. Zolt directed, had been moderately successful. Students liked writing online about books and  sharing their ideas with Internet pen pals, including adult mentors. Many teachers embraced the project, called In2Books, and participating students outscored their peers in standardized tests.Still, the costly venture grew only gradually, classroom by classroom. The couple had put $10 million into the charity, a "meaningful portion" of the family wealth, Mr. Gilburne says. "It was enough money that I did lie awake at night thinking about the size of the checks," he recalls.As philanthropy, the couple's efforts, however worthwhile, weren't sustainable.  But their vision of using the Internet for communication and collaboration to improve education has taken on a new life — as a business.Today, the once-struggling venture has morphed into a primarily for-profit enterprise. And the striking transformation of In2Books is emblematic of a larger trend: charities are changing their spots and making use of some of capitalism's virtues.The process is being pushed forward by a new breed of social entrepreneurs who are administering increasing doses of bottom-line thinking to traditional philanthropy in order to make charity more effective.To make a fresh start, Mr. Gilburne attracted like-minded angel investors, and at the end of 2006 the group bought a for-profit company, ePals Inc., to expand on the original mission and support the foundation. The ePals company has grown and now offers classroom e-mail, blogs, online literacy tools and Web-based collaborative projects on subjects like global warming and habitats.EPals says 125,000 classrooms around the world are using at least some of its free tools, reaching 13 million students, and its ambition is to become a global "learning social network."National Geographic is to announce this week that it is investing in ePals, based in Herndon, Va., and will supply educational content for the ePals learning projects. Worldwide distribution should get a lift from Intel, which will soon ship its Classmate laptops, designed for students in developing nations, with the ePals icon on the screens. And ePals is also offered for use on the low-cost computers from One Laptop Per Child, a nonprofit group trying to bring the content and experience of the Internet to children in developing countries worldwide.Various versions of efforts like this are appearing across the philanthropic landscape as business-minded donors, epitomized by Bill and Melinda Gates and their  foundation, have treated their charitable contributions more like venture capital investments. They seek programs that can be catalysts for broad changes in fields like health, education and the environment, they measure performance and results, and they encourage nonprofits to become more self-sustaining.Yet  to have the greatest possible impact, a further step down the capitalist road is sometimes needed, analysts and others in the field say. Muhammad Yunus, the microfinance pioneer and Nobel  laureate, calls this next step the "social business." The goal, according to Mr. Yunus, is to create ventures that more than pay for themselves — in other words,  turn a profit.Social business entrepreneurs, he writes, can help "make the market work for social goals as efficiently as it does for personal goals."PHILANTHROPIES are discovering that for-profit status and financing can be a useful tool. For example, many microfinance lenders, modeled after Mr. Yunus's project, the Grameen Bank in Bangladesh, aim to make the crossover to profit-making institutions.Mozilla, the nonprofit foundation that developed the open-source Web browser Firefox, decided that it needed a for-profit unit to accelerate its business activities and gain market share against Microsoft's Internet Explorer. The business unit is freer to spend on marketing, charge for software service and technical support, and pay to compete for engineering talent in Silicon Valley.Likewise, Google.org, the search giant's corporate foundation, chose for-profit status to be able to easily make investments in for-profit companies including alternative energy start-ups like eSolar and Makani Power."Capitalism is a very mutable, flexible beast, and what we're seeing is social entrepreneurs addressing some of these social challenges in profoundly different ways than traditional nonprofit organizations," said John Elkington, co-author with Pamela Hartigan of "The Power of Unreasonable People: How Social Entrepreneurs Create Markets that Change the World," a new book that was handed out last month to attendees at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Even among its hybrid peers, ePals has evolved into an unusual combination of a business and a social venture. When Mr. Gilburne and Ms. Zolt established the for-profit arm in 2006, they attracted like-minded investors, acquired ePals Inc. and began hiring talented staff. They gave the original education foundation a 15 percent stake in the ePals company, and its endowment will grow if the business prospers. The nonprofit division is focusing on educational research and bringing technology into classrooms.But the company is where the action is. "This needs to be a large business to have a really significant social impact," Mr. Gilburne said. "We couldn't do what we're doing as a nonprofit."Very few nonprofits get big. Only 144 of the more than 200,000 nonprofits established since 1970 had grown to $50 million or more in revenue by 2003, according to a study published last year by the Bridgespan Group, a nonprofit consulting firm that advises philanthropies.With the rising influence of social entrepreneurs in philanthropy, many nonprofits have sought to generate revenue to become more self-sustaining. But it is still rare for a nonprofit to cross the chasm to become mainly a profit-seeking business, as in the ePals experience."It's tricky, but it makes sense when the business is highly aligned with the mission of the social entrepreneurs," said Jeffrey L. Bradach, a managing partner of Bridgespan.As a for-profit business, ePals can more easily attract financing for growth. But outside investors raise the risk that the original social ideals will be lost in a single-minded pursuit of profit. Mr. Gilburne has tried to avoid that pitfall by gathering a stable of angel investors among his longtime business friends, who bring not only money but also a shared belief in the promise of the Internet to improve education.The group includes Stephen M. Case, the former chief executive of AOL; Mitchell Kapor, the founder of the early spreadsheet maker Lotus Development and an open-source software supporter; and Yossi Vardi, an Israeli Internet entrepreneur."None of our investors are interested just in making another financial score," Mr. Gilburne said.AFTER pooling their money, the angel investors bought the ePals company in December 2006 for an undisclosed price. Mr. Gilburne had watched ePals for years, starting when he was at AOL in the 1990s, and he saw it as the foundation on which to build an educational social network.EPals started as a Web-based electronic pen-pal service in 1996, offering  point-and-click tools that teachers could use to control how students use e-mail. A teacher in California, for example, set the controls so her class could communicate online only with a class in China that was engaged in a joint cultural exchange project.Since the angel investors came aboard in 2006, the ePals work force has more than doubled, to 43, and the company continues to hire. It has improved the e-mail and blogging software and added links to outside resources, like National Geographic's digital library, to its Web-based software for online projects."We were a small company with little capital," said Tim DiScipio, a founder of the original ePals, who is the chief marketing officer of the revamped company under its new ownership. "But now we have the resources to really pursue the vision of social learning over the Internet."Until last fall, ePals charged $3 to $5 a year for each student e-mail account, but the service is now free. The effect of free distribution was immediate and dramatic. The number of registered users has nearly doubled, to 13 million, since September.The growth and ambition of ePals have impressed National Geographic enough to make an investment and forge a partnership."We're looking at them as a global network to distribute National Geographic content," explained Edward M. Prince, the chief operating officer of the venture arm of the nonprofit scientific and educational organization.The ePals team is betting that it can build a worldwide social network in education — a serious, controlled version of Facebook, for students in kindergarten through 12th grade. "When markets go digital, they go collaborative and sharing," said Edmund Fish, the chief executive of ePals and a former executive of AOL, where he oversaw online education offerings. "That can happen in education, too. A learning social network is not an oxymoron."Even the basic social networking of ePals e-mail exchanges, teachers say, helps improve writing skills and stirs curiosity about other cultures. Mirjana Milovic, a teacher in Kragujevac, Serbia, says ePals has helped the 120 students in her school with their English-language skills. Their correspondents in Alabama and Kansas have also learned that jeans and Nike shoes are popular in Kragujevac but that the McDonald's in town closed for lack of business."We usually prefer our domestic food," wrote Marija, an 18-year-old.Candace Pauchnick, who teaches English and sociology at Patrick Henry High School in San Diego,  has been using ePals for what she calls "virtual field trips." In their online exchanges with students in Italy, China and the Czech Republic, her students have learned about family life and political systems in foreign lands and improved their writing skills."If they were just writing for me, they wouldn't be as careful," Ms. Pauchnick said. "But they're writing for a student in another country. It's not drudgery for them. They buy in and they enjoy it."Ms. Zolt,  the chief program architect of ePals, endorsed the for-profit route but insisted that the digital network also provide a free searchable database for educational research."The promise here is to be able to study, with vast amounts of real-time data, how children learn," she said.Scholars are enthusiastic. "Its potential is very exciting," said Linda B. Gambrell, a professor of education at Clemson University, who is one of the academic advisers of ePals. "This should help us quicken the pace of translating innovative research into best practices in the classroom."Like many start-up companies, the revamped ePals is still working on its business model. Mr. Gilburne, the chairman, says it will pursue corporate sponsors for certain project areas. These could be part of a company's community and social responsibility activities, providing approved adult experts to help students online. For example, General Electric might sponsor ePals' global warming section by providing environmental experts as online mentors, Mr. Gilburne said, or perhaps Intel or I.B.M. would help in engineering projects.There are commerce opportunities, Mr. Gilburne added, for education publishers who might want to market books or curriculum materials for home-school students over ePals.Eventually, Mr. Gilburne said, advertising will be part of the mix. "But we'll go gingerly to figure out what is appropriate and doesn't impose on the classroom," he said.The failure rate for entrepreneurs — whether social or purely capitalist — is high. Still, ePals' backers are betting that it is worth the risk. "These kinds of opportunities to do well and do good at the same time don't grow on trees," said Mr. Kapor, the ePals investor and a philanthropist. "But I do think that ePals could be one of them."Eugene, Ore.IT was raining — or rather, spritzing softly — as usual as Margaret B. Jones stood barefoot in her front yard last week. She'd just said goodbye to her 8-year-old daughter, Rya, a pale, shy beauty brandishing a jar of pet fish, who had left to spend the night with her father. In front of Ms. Jones was her recently frozen and now floppy garden, where she tends blueberries, rhubarb and roses, and around her was a middle-class enclave of apartment complexes, clapboard houses and little parks."Shoot, I'm happy," said Ms. Jones, 33, a single mother who spent her youth as a foster child and gang member. She was dealing drugs on the streets of South Central Los Angeles before she hit puberty. "I'm making do. At least I'm not in three rooms anymore."Instead, she owns a four-bedroom 1940s bungalow near her alma mater — a university where she "learned big words for stuff I already knew," she said — and has just written a book, "Love and Consequences" (Riverhead Books), a heart-wrenching memoir that was released this week.Ms. Jones is five feet tall in jeans, a pink camouflage hoodie, a toe ring and a fresh set of artificial fingernails. Besides being a consummate storyteller and analyst of inner city pathology, she is  one of the few people who in the same conversation can talk about the joys of putting up her own jam ("I'm going to give you a couple of jars!") and the painful business of getting a tattoo of a large, weeping pit bull across her back the day the state of Nevada set a close friend's execution date. "It's the most ghetto thing on my body," she said.Her memoir is an intimate, visceral portrait of the gangland drug trade of Los Angeles as seen through the life of one household: a stern but loving black grandmother working two jobs; her two grandsons who quit school and became Bloods at ages 12 and 13; her two granddaughters, both born addicted to crack cocaine; and the author, a mixed-race white and Native American foster child who at age 8 came to live with them in their mostly black community. She ended up following her foster brothers into the gang, and it was only when a high school teacher urged her to apply to college that Ms. Jones even began to consider her future."Why take out loans? I figured I'd be dead," she said. "One of the first things I did once I started making drug money was to buy a burial plot."She got a partial scholarship to the University of Oregon and used it to hoist herself out of the streets.Ms. Jones's foster siblings have met with a range of fates. Her brother Terrell was killed by the Crips at 21. Her brother Taye, 36, has three children and lives in Tacoma, Wash. The last she heard, he worked for Sprint. Her youngest sister, NeeCee, killed herself three years ago. Nishia, another sister, works at a day care center in Los Angeles and braids hair on the side, but they stopped speaking several years ago after a financial dispute, Ms. Jones said.Unlike several other recent gang memoirs, all written by men, Ms. Jones's story is told from a nurturer's point of view. Along with grit and blood, every chapter describes tenderness and love between people as well as the rites and details of domestic life."The reason I wanted to write the book is that all the time, people would say to me, you're not what I imagine someone from South L.A. would be like," she said, curled up on her living room sofa, which was jacketed in a brown elasticized cover from Target. Her feet rested on a chunky coffee table from World Market. The house smelled of black-eyed peas, which were stewing with pork neck bones  — a dish from the repertory of her foster mother, known as "Big Mom," whose shoe box of recipes she inherited."I guess people get their ideas from TV, which is so one-dimensional and gives you no back story," she said. Long stretches of unrelieved violence shut a viewer's brain down, she added, "but one of the beautiful things about a book is you get to put in all the little things that touch people. If you can find a way to combine ordinary moments like being at a birthday party or making dinner with the kind of violent things that people can't even wrap their brains around, then people can relate."With its shootings, pimps beating prostitutes in the street and drug deals plainly transacted in front of children, the Los Angeles neighborhood where Ms. Jones lived is light years from her tame life now.More than any neighborhood, her house, which she shares with a changing cast of family and friends, is now her world. "Whatever I do in this town has to be more fun than hanging out at home with my friends and dogs," she said. "There's not a lot of things."For a long time she rented out rooms to people — "college students, hippies, whoever, to help pay the mortgage," she said. "When the check from the book deal cleared, I got rid of the housemates and set up little college funds for the kids" — her daughter and Masai, the son of another foster sister, Christi. For months at a time, Masai, 6, comes from Los Angeles to live with Ms. Jones so he can attend a better school. "He's family," Ms. Jones said. "But to me, family is a little broader than to the average person."She often holes up in her office, where a metal sign over the door reads: Writer at Work. There, on a soft black vinyl chair, she sits wearing iPod ear buds with the device turned off, a ruse to keep people from talking to her. A shelf above her desk holds an altar of family snapshots, with many more black faces than white. "This is my brother who's dead, back when he was in juvie," she said, pointing out Terrell's face in a picture frame.Ms. Jones gave birth to her daughter while she was still in college, then graduated with a degree in ethnic studies, She stayed on in Eugene. Rya's father, she said, was "the first white guy I ever dated, and she was the first white baby I ever saw. I said, she looks sickly, is there something wrong with her?"During her senior year of college, one of Ms. Jones's professors asked her if she would  agree to be interviewed by a feminist friend working on a book. Ms. Jones initially said no — "I wasn't interested in the whole South Central as petting zoo thing" — but then reconsidered. She liked the interviewer and gave her a five-page short story she'd written. The interviewer passed the story to her agent, Faye Bender, who asked Ms. Jones to write 100 pages and then parlayed them into a book contract.In 2000, while working at a Starbucks, Ms. Jones bought her four-bedroom house in the Whiteaker neighborhood, considered the ghetto of Eugene, she said. "But it's the nicest place I've ever lived. This little 'hood is safe. Schools are great. The neighbor kids come over to play, Mexican and white. I feel cool — I walk my dogs at two in the morning down to the river."As comfortable as her life is, she's often homesick for Los Angeles, which remains her cultural wellspring."If it were just me? I'd go back to L.A. in a second," she said. "But my child deserves to be near her father, and I wouldn't put her in second-rate schools in South Central. It's not so much that it's boring here. I'm a boring person! But there, I could have a purpose, help people."Is Ms. Jones still a gang member? "If you make a choice to do it, it's forever," she said. "Once a Blood, always a Blood. Am I an active member? No."She keeps up with gangland style, slang and people from her old life, many of whom are in jail. Until two and a half years ago, she said, she bred pit bulls and sold them locally and in Los Angeles, where red-nosed pit bulls are the favorite dog of Bloods, largely because of their reputedly aggressive nature. (Ms. Jones hotly defends the breed, maintaining that they are friendly unless abusively trained.) Pit bulls function as a Bloods symbol, as Rottweilers do for the Crips. Ms. Jones said she sold puppies to gang members and others for $200 apiece.Every year, she said, she gets a little farther from the streets. Recently, she started a gang truce organization called International Brother/SisterHood to help youths move away from gang life.Without financial help, "selling drugs is the only way you get out of the ghetto," she said, and then only if one forgoes a flashy car and pays for an education and a house before renouncing drug-dealing income."It was different for me because I'm up here where you can buy a house for $130,000, with a 3 percent down payment." She came up with her down payment by cashing in Starbucks stock options, she said.Sometimes it's so quiet in Eugene that she feels panicky. The other day she heard an airplane and thought of the police helicopters that were always overhead in Los Angeles. "We used to say they were chopping up the air so we could breathe," she said."The first time my o. g. visited me here" — meaning original gangster, the gang's leader — "he slept 20 hours straight. In L.A. your anxiety is so high you sleep three hours a night."That visitor, whom Rya calls Uncle Madd Ronald, is now in prison in California. The ways Ms. Jones and her daughter responded to the news reflected their vastly different childhoods. "Rya was just shattered," Ms. Jones said. "I told her, don't worry about it, he didn't do anything bad. He just got caught up selling drugs.""I'm not saying it's right, but there are a lot of worse things," she said. "But she was just so upset. She thought about it real hard and later she wrote him a letter saying, 'I love you even though you're a drug dealer.' I said to her, wow, you can't send that to jail, it's like saying I love you even though you're ugly — it's just not nice."As night fell, Ms. Jones's pets, including two pit bulls, a Chihuahua, a cockatiel and three cats, kept silent. A friend let herself in with a key, found a bowl in a cabinet and quietly dished up some gumbo that Ms. Jones had left on the stove top. Another friend, Steven Moore, sat in the living room playing video games. (He is staying with Ms. Jones indefinitely while he recuperates from a gunshot wound to the leg that he sustained in Los Angeles.)Ms. Jones stood in her big kitchen near a small art table she had set up for the children under a poster listing the Ten Commandments. She offered everyone the house cocktail: Hennessy and Coke. Then she mixed up a batch of perfect buttermilk corn bread without measuring anything. "I make it so much I can eyeball it," she said. "I'm working on a cookbook right now. Big Mom would roll over in her grave, knowing I'm giving her recipes away."A film agent has shown interest in her book, she said. What if the film rights were sold and she were to see some bigger money?"I'd probably buy a building in the 'hood in L.A. and open a community center and some boxing rings," she said. "There's nothing for kids to do. I don't really need that iPod that shows movies."WITHIN a few months of starting In Good Company Consulting, a business to advise female entrepreneurs, Amy Abrams and Adelaide Fives discovered that they shared something with many of their clients. They, too, needed office space that was well located and professional with a place for private meetings. And they wanted to be near like-minded entrepreneurs.They tried subletting space from another firm. They rented space at the corporate office suites HQ (now the Regus Group) and BevMax Office Centers and visited virtually every flexible and temporary office space in Manhattan. But they were disappointed with what they regarded as the often cold and impersonal qualities of those places, not to mention the shared restrooms that never seemed to be clean enough. "And nothing had the energy and buzz we were looking for," Ms. Fives said.So they designed it. And last September, In Good Company Workplaces opened in the Flatiron district of Manhattan with its first 39 members. Their company Web site speaks of "the three essential elements every successful business needs: productive workspace, powerful connections and effective ideas." By many accounts it is an unusual hybrid:  equal parts business incubator, co-working  and learning space and members-only networking group."They are onto something here," said Nell Merlino, founder of Count Me In, a nonprofit group that makes small loans to female entrepreneurs. Ms. Merlino, who had never heard of In Good Company, said that the idea made sense in light of the research she had conducted. "Seventy-three percent of women business owners work by themselves, so community is very important."Still, Ms. Merlino cautioned women who are considering this kind of move. "An awful lot of women worry about being defined by not having a nice space," she said. "The focus has got to be about growth, not just 'I want to go and hang out with other people' or 'I need to get out of the house so the kids are not climbing all over the place.'  "The company's menu of offerings reads like a gym membership, with an annual fee and various options based on how many hours of desk and meeting room time the entrepreneur wants to rent each month. All memberships include free Wi-Fi, printing and faxing, a monthly 30-minute consultation with Ms. Abrams or Ms. Fives, free admission to events and seminars and a listing in the member directory. Members can change their plans from month to month. At the moment, the company has 110 members, with 60 percent on a basic plan that costs $300 a year and allows them to rent meeting and desk space à la carte.The space, which Ms. Adelaide and Ms. Abrams designed, has a loftlike feel and a sleek, minimalist style with white desks, exposed brick walls and a rotating art exhibit featuring women artists with a connection to In Good Company. The common area has a collection of desks that members choose based on what is available on the days they work. Members say that voices are fairly hushed during phone calls, which are generally on cellphones unless someone chooses to use the landline next to the sofa in the back of the room. For more privacy on calls, members can briefly step into an empty meeting room if one is available.E. B. Moss, the founder of Moss Appeal, a marketing and promotion services company, uses a toll-free number that automatically forwards to her cellphone when she is at In Good Company. Initially, she was concerned that when clients came for meetings, they would have to look for In Good Company rather than her company's name on the directory. But she has grown comfortable with that. "Transparency is what it's all about," she said. "When I first started out, I was protective about letting people know there were no bricks and mortar to me. It fits in with the green division of my company. I like to keep my footprint small."Members, who find their way to In Good Company through word of mouth and the women's groups where the founders have relationships are exuberant in their praise for the arrangement."The space is just a dream come true, with beautiful space options, which I utilize happily," said Emily Wolper, a college and graduate school admissions consultant, who lives in New Jersey where she has a home office. Ms. Wolper books meeting room space for client sessions and uses one of the desks in the open workspace area when she has time in the city between meetings. She also uses Ms. Fives as a business consultant. "As a solo practitioner, I don't have a staff or a boss to talk about issues that come up, so I have found Adelaide to be an amazing resource." she said.Galia Gichon, the founder of Down-to-Earth Finance, a financial advisory company, gravitated to In Good Company when Two Rooms, a workspace on the Upper West Side catering to working mothers, closed. Ms. Gichon was so impressed with the way Ms. Fives and Ms. Abrams operated that she agreed to be on their advisory board. "I was part of two focus groups they did, and they were as professionally done as what Colgate-Palmolive does. As soon as they opened their doors, I said, 'Sign me up.' " Even as a board member, she pays full rates.Many of the women say that the environment is a tonic against the loneliness that can plague a solo or start-up business. "There is just nothing like it in the city," said Marissa Lippert, who runs Nourish, a company that offers nutrition and lifestyle counseling. "It's the best of both worlds — you run your own schedule and company, but you have the benefits of a corporate culture."The company gets high marks for its flexibility. Ms. Moss currently uses the highest level of membership, which gives her about 20 hours a week of desk space and 2 hours of meeting room space. But she says she may downgrade to a lower plan when business is slow. Ms. Wolper, whose business fluctuates with the school admissions calendar, also appreciates the ability to change plans during the year.Though many of the members say they were not specifically searching for an all-female office, some businesses are particularly well suited to it. Krisztina Jenei, a custom dressmaker and seamstress, drapes a curtain over the glass partition and uses the meeting rooms to do fittings with her clients. "It's just not professional fitting clients in office bathrooms," she said.Though men cannot be members, they are welcome in the space as clients or at events. And though initially the partners were courting female backers, the company's first round of investors were men. In fact, six of the company's seven individual investors are couples in which the husbands signed on after being introduced to the company by their wives.The partners say they have found a way to take their business model further than they would have had they retained a pure consulting practice. "Consulting is only as big as the people you have. You scale by hiring more people," Ms. Abrams said. "We wanted to focus on how to touch more business owners. Also, a lot of women come because there is a problem. Once you've solved the problem, you don't see them again. We wanted to develop something to help in a more ongoing way."They said they also wanted to build something that would offer a model of a certain type of entrepreneurial behavior to their target market. "Our plan," Ms. Abrams said, "is to be much bigger than one space, and to build a bigger business for many years to come."The chief executive of About.com, The New York Times Company's lucrative information and advice site, said Wednesday that he would leave the company next week.The departure of Scott B. Meyer comes as the company is under intense pressure from a major shareholder to increase its investment in Internet operations like About.com.Mr. Meyer and other Times Company executives said the parting was amicable, and industry analysts said all indications were that the company was pleased with him. In an interview, Mr. Meyer said that after running About.com for almost three years, he was ready for a change."I'm looking to run an independent digital business," said Mr. Meyer, 38, who added that his last day would be March 6. "Where I want to go next, that opportunity doesn't necessarily exist at The Times right now."Ron McCoy, who is the chief technology officer of the company's About division, will run About.com on an interim basis. A spokeswoman for the company, Catherine Mathis, said it will look inside and outside for a new chief executive.About.com contains hundreds of deeply detailed "verticals," on topics of everyday interest as varied as arthritis treatment, barbecue cooking and radio-controlled vehicles. Each category is run by a guide, who updates the page with articles, video and other content and responds to reader feedback.The Times Company bought About.com in 2005 for $400 million, and some of the analysts and investors who said then that the company had overpaid for a questionable asset now see the purchase as a smart move.The About division  recorded $102.7 million in revenue last year, up 28 percent from 2006, and $34.7 million in operating profit, up 12.6 percent. About.com, which generates revenue from ads, is the largest part of the division, which also includes smaller  Internet acquisitions.Over the last two months, a pair of hedge funds has bought 19.03 percent of the Times Company's common stock. They have nominated four directors to the board and the company has nominated its own slate, setting up the possibility of an all-out fight for shareholder support ahead of the April 22 annual meeting.The company has said that it has not ruled out the dissident nominees, and on Tuesday it contacted them to arrange interviews by the board's nominating committee.The funds, Firebrand Partners and Harbinger Capital Partners, contend that the company would be better off selling some assets like its new headquarters building in Midtown Manhattan, The Boston Globe and several smaller newspapers. The proceeds, they argue, should be invested in Internet businesses.Editors' NoteA front-page article on Saturday described a cocaine epidemic in Argentina fed by the consumption of paco, an addictive smokable cocaine residue. The article included an explanatory paragraph about paco's addictive power and toxicity that repeated material from a 2006 article published in The Miami Herald, without attributing it to the newspaper. The correspondent, who had done his own research with Argentine and Brazilian officials on the drug and its effects, should have summarized it in his own words, or credited The Herald.The passage in question is this:"Paco is highly addictive because its high lasts just a few minutes—and is so intense that many users smoke 20 to 50 paco cigarettes a day to try to make its effects linger. Paco is even more toxic than crack cocaine because it is made mostly of solvents and chemicals like kerosene, with just a dab of cocaine, Argentine and Brazilian drug enforcement officials said."CorrectionsBecause of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about a lawsuit filed against energy companies by an Alaska Native coastal village that is being forced to relocate because of flooding caused by the changing Arctic climate misstated the estimated cost of moving the village. It could cost up to $400 million, not up to $400,000.  (Go to Article)For the RecordAn article on Monday about Argentina's struggle to avoid energy shortages attributed an erroneous distinction to Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, the country's president. She is the first woman to have been elected president — not the first woman to serve in that office. (María Estela Perón, known as Isabelita, became president in July 1974 after her husband, Gen. Juan Domingo Perón, died.)  (Go to Article)A listing of American military deaths on Tuesday misstated the number of confirmed dead in the Iraq war as of then. It was 3,962, not 3,961. An updated Names of the Dead appears on Page A10  today.  (Go to Article)Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday by The Associated Press about the crash of a B-2 stealth bomber misspelled the name of the Air Force base in Guam from which the plane took off. It is Andersen Air Force Base, not Anderson.  (Go to Article)An article on Feb. 12 about efforts by hospitals in New York City to expand their emergency rooms misidentified the hospital system with the busiest emergency department, according to the New York State Department of Health, which verifies figures provided by hospitals. It is NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, not Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.  (Go to Article)A picture caption with an article in some editions last Thursday about concerns that New York City's plans to rezone 125th Street in Harlem would force out many black residents and small businesses referred incompletely to a street scene along East 125th Street, shown in the picture at left. It was taken in 1975. (The picture at right showed a current scene of nighttime commerce between Fifth Avenue and Malcolm X Boulevard.)  (Go to Article)The Advertising column in Business Day on Tuesday, about commercials that ran during the Academy Awards show on Sunday, referred incorrectly to "Killing the Blues," a song featured in a commercial for J. C. Penney. Although the recording heard is from a new album by Alison Krauss and Robert Plant, the song itself is not new. (It is by John Prine and has been recorded by many artists.)  (Go to Article)A chart with a sports article on Tuesday about the anticipated strength of the Detroit Tigers' lineup misstated, in some copies, the year of the statistics for three players who are out of the lineup and for three additions to the team. The totals were from 2007, not 2006.  (Go to Article)A film review in Weekend on Friday about the three-part movie "The Signal" reversed the identities of two directors. Part 2 was directed by Jacob Gentry and Part 3 was directed by Dan Bush. The review also misidentified a character at one point. It is Lewis who is "now raging" in Part 2, not Ben. (Go to Article)A music review on Feb. 18 about two concerts by the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra, at Carnegie Hall, misstated the age of the twin children of the orchestra's music director, David Robertson, who mentioned them in remarks before one concert. They are 5 months old, not 5 years.  (Go to Article)Home & GardenA picture caption last Thursday with an article about homeowners who hire professional photographers to take pictures of their houses misidentified Juergen Nogai, who was shown with two such homeowners.  He is a photographer and the  business partner of another photographer, Julius Shulman, who was also pictured. Mr. Nogai is not Mr. Shulman's assistant.  (Go to Article)WASHINGTON — Representative Rick Renzi, Republican of Arizona, was indicted this week by a federal grand jury on 35 counts of corruption, including fraud, money laundering, extortion and other crimes, federal prosecutors said Friday.Federal prosecutors said Mr. Renzi had sought to enrich himself and to finance his re-election campaigns in part by selling fraudulent insurance policies.In a 26-page indictment, prosecutors charged that Mr. Renzi abused the power of his office by forcing constituents to buy land from a man who was his secret business partner in exchange for Mr. Renzi's support for legislation. The partner funneled $733,000 in proceeds from the sale to Mr. Renzi, prosecutors said.Mr. Renzi, who is an Arizona co-chairman of Senator John McCain's presidential campaign, had been under investigation for more than two years and announced last August that he would not seek re-election this November to a fourth term.As soon as the indictment was announced, Democrats began circulating a statement in which Mr. McCain, of Arizona, praised Mr. Renzi's "honesty and integrity" while urging voters to re-elect him in 2006.Mr. Renzi's lawyers issued a statement proclaiming his innocence."Congressman Renzi did nothing wrong," said the lawyers, Reid H. Weingarten and Kelly B. Kramer. "We will fight these charges until he is vindicated and his family's name is restored."But Republican leaders in Congress indicated they would be glad to see him leave office as quickly as possible. The indictment comes as the House considers a proposal to create an independent ethics office to investigate alleged misconduct."The charges contained in this indictment are completely unacceptable for a member of Congress," the Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, said in an unusually pointed statement, "and I strongly urge Representative Renzi to seriously consider whether he can continue to effectively represent his constituents under these circumstances."Mr. Boehner said he would meet with Mr. Renzi "at the earliest possible opportunity to discuss this situation and the best option for his constituents, our conference and the American people."Mr. Renzi, 49, is among several lawmakers to be indicted or placed under federal investigation in recent months.Representative John T. Doolittle, Republican of California, announced last month that he would not seek re-election, a sign that he  is likely to face criminal charges in a Congressional lobbying scandal. Representative Don Young and Senator Ted Stevens,  Republicans from Alaska, have been under investigation for their ties to a businessman who has admitted bribing public officials. Mr. Doolittle, Mr. Young and Mr. Stevens all deny wrongdoing.The investigation of Mr. Renzi was also tied to allegations that the Bush administration dismissed federal prosecutors for political reasons. Paul K. Charlton, the United States attorney in Phoenix who opened the investigation of Mr. Renzi, was one of the eight prosecutors dismissed.At a news conference in Phoenix, Mr. Charlton's successor, Diane J. Humetewa, described Mr. Renzi's actions as "two courses of criminal activity and conduct."First, Ms. Humetewa said, Mr. Renzi "embezzled funds from his own insurance company's trust accounts and used those funds to finance his first Congressional campaign in 2001 and 2002." According to the indictment, Mr. Renzi and his partner in an insurance company engaged in a conspiracy "to embezzle and misappropriate client premiums." The indictment also said Mr. Renzi falsified his Congressional financial disclosure forms.The second course of criminal activity, Ms. Humetewa said, involved Mr. Renzi's efforts to force constituents to purchase land from his business partner, James Sandlin, in exchange for his support of legislation that would allow the constituents to engage in a land swap with the federal government."No Sandlin property, no bill," Mr. Renzi said, according to the indictment.In forcing a sale, Ms. Humetewa said, "Congressman Renzi deprived the citizens of Arizona of their right to his honest services."In their statement, Mr. Renzi's lawyers accused the Justice Department of political motivations. They also criticized the timing of the indictment, which they said came a day after the funeral of Mr. Renzi's father.Mr. Renzi and two co-defendants are scheduled to be arraigned on March 6.
