Ask successful entrepreneurs the best advice they ever got, and what may be most surprising is how quickly they come up with an answer and how specific it is.Their responses generally went beyond  the ever popular, "Do what you love, and the money will follow."Most of the advice they cited  fell into two categories:1)Know what you don't know and take whatever steps you need to gain the necessary missing skills (instead of trying to fake it), and2)Prepare for the future today.Here are a few examples:START RIGHT Fred Carl Jr. was working full time in the construction business and, in his spare time, planning the business that would become Viking Range.  His wife's cousin, the managing director of the local office of the Touche Ross accounting firm, would stop by and see how his planning was going, Mr. Carl told Harvard Business Review. On one of those visits, he gave Mr. Carl this advice:"Freddie, you  should run this from day one like it's a public company. Treat it like it's going to be big. Hire a top-notch accounting firm and get audited every year. Work with the best law firms you can — ones that do securities work. Invest for the future, don't ever settle for second best, and start this thing off right."Mr. Carl said he realized that he was not approaching the business side of the company with the same standards as he had in mind for his product."To create the company I wanted to, I had to look into the future and pretend I was already there. I had to stop treating the infrastructure of the company like some necessary evil, invest in it more than I thought possible and trust the investment would work."PLAN EARLY Howard Schultz of Starbucks spoke of  similar advice he has gotten from  Warren Bennis, a professor at the University of Southern California and an expert on leadership."He said this many times, that I needed to invest ahead of the growth curve and think beyond the status quo in terms of the skill base, the experience, and the quality of the people around me. He also told me that the art of becoming a great leader is in developing your ability to leave your own ego at the door and to recognize the skills and traits you don't possess and that you need to build a world-class organization."TRUST Earl G. Graves, the founder, chairman and chief executive  of Earl G. Graves Ltd. which among other things owns Black Enterprise magazine, says "trust people" was the best advice he got when he was starting out.Trust, he told Harvard Business Review in 2005, "enables you to leverage yourself, to delegate responsibility to people who can make you more effective or carry out your ideas."And, he adds, trust "brings out the best in people: If they know they are trusted, they will rise to the occasion."PERSPECTIVE "Don't get overexcited  by what you are doing," counsels S. Truett Cathy, 86, founder and chairman of the 1,300 unit Chick-fil-A restaurant chain.In an interview this month with the trade publication, Chain Leader, he says that if you get too excited, you are likely to borrow yourself into debt.WHO'S IMPORTANT  "A customer is the most important person ever in this office — in person or by mail." From Leon Leonwood Bean, a revolutionary thought when he started L.L. Bean in 1912.MOTHER KNOWS BEST Jeff Taylor, founder and former chief executive  of Monster.com, is now the chief executive of Eons.com, a lifestyle Web site for people 50 years and older. He tells Entrepreneur.com  that   the best counsel he ever got came from his mother, who said: "If you want to do something, just do it. The only way to achieve your goals is to jump right in and get started. You don't need instructions, and you don't need to be an expert."LAST CALL The advicethat Dawna Henderson, managing partner of Henderson Bas, a digital sales and marketing agency in Toronto, has to offer is alliterative and battle-tested: "Focus on the three "P"s: Profit, Product and Paranoia."WASHINGTON, Nov. 28 — Could it be called Senators and Sons, L.L.P.?Former Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana, a centrist Democrat, announced on Wednesday that he was leaving the law firm Patton Boggs, where he has worked as a lobbyist since 2005, to form his own firm with a son, John Breaux Jr.And he said he was excited to explore a potential partnership with Senator Trent Lott, the Mississippi Republican who announced on Monday that he would retire next month and whose son, Chester T. Lott Jr., is also a lobbyist.In an interview, the younger Mr. Lott, known as Chet, said his father had not made any plans and had received a flood of offers and interest from firms in different fields. He said Mr. Lott was unlikely to make any decision before he officially left the Senate.But lobbying has become an increasingly lucrative career path for former elected officials, and Washington insiders were aflutter over the prospect of a powerhouse boutique firm led by two smooth Southern lawmakers, one Republican, one Democrat, each with a reputation as a moderate deal maker. And the elder Mr. Breaux, in a telephone interview from Louisiana, did nothing to dampen the speculation."I know Trent is going to have dozens of extremely attractive offers," Mr. Breaux said. "He is going to be able to pick and choose what he wants to do. I look forward to talking to him and seeing if it makes sense for us to do anything together."He added: "I am going to open up my own shop. I would love to have Trent involved. Hopefully, I can be one of the first people he talks to."Mr. Breaux and Mr. Lott have followed similar career paths. They first worked on Capitol Hill as aides to congressmen from their home states, and they were elected to the House in 1972. Mr. Breaux was elected to the Senate in 1986; Mr. Lott in 1988. They were powerful members of the Senate Finance Committee and were members of their party's leadership.They were also personal friends and neighbors, living just across the street from each other in Annandale, Va., when their children were young. Mr. Lott's wife, Tricia, is godmother to Mr. Breaux's younger daughter, Julia.Chet Lott, who played in a band in high school with Mr. Breaux's younger son, Bill, acknowledged the close family ties but said there were no plans yet for a business partnership."John Breaux and my dad, they know each other a long time," Mr. Lott said. "We lived across the street from them. Yeah, we're close to them, but that doesn't mean we are going into business with them."Mr. Lott said his father planned to head out on the paid lecture circuit and would like to teach a college course of some kind. "He's looking at all the offers that are coming in," he said. "He doesn't know what he is going to do, and he can't even have any negotiations with anybody, ethically, until he leaves the Senate anyway."Mr. Breaux's contract with Patton Boggs ends this year, and in a statement the firm wished him well and said it hoped to continue a working relationship with him. Mr. Breaux, 63, said he had been encouraging Mr. Lott, 66, to leave office but understood his decision to run again in 2006 to serve Mississippi after Hurricane Katrina."I have been telling him he ought to resign ever since I did," Mr. Breaux said. "I said: 'You're getting old. It's time to do something else with your life.'"The H. J. Heinz Company posted an 18 percent increase in quarterly profit yesterday as the weak dollar improved results in Europe and in emerging markets, and price increases helped offset rising ingredient costs.The company  also raised the top end of its  2008 earnings forecast as new products and a 23 percent increase in marketing lifted sales.Profit was $227 million, or 71 cents a share, in the second quarter,  which ended Oct. 31, compared with $191.6 million, or 57 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.Analysts on average had forecast 67 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.Sales rose 13 percent, to $2.52 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, acquisitions and divestitures, sales increased 8.1 percent.Like most American food companies, Heinz has been facing higher costs for corn-based sweeteners, dairy products and other ingredients. The company has raised prices and improved productivity to offset the higher expenses.Heinz said it expected commodity costs to be up more than 7 percent this year, higher than the 5.5 percent the company forecast three months ago.With about 60 percent of Heinz's sales coming from outside the United States, sales made in euros and other strong currencies have in part offset rising commodity costs, the chief financial officer, Arthur B. Winkleblack, said.Heinz has also spent heavily on marketing and product development; products like new soups and ketchup with reduced sugar and salt in Britain helped lift sales.Sales in the North American consumer products business rose 9.7 percent and profit in that business was up about 7 percent. Heinz Europe sales climbed 18 percent and profit rose 14.8 percent. Asia-Pacific sales rose 16.8 percent and profit increased 21.8 percent.Profit in food service in the United States fell 13.5 percent, hurt by rising dairy costs and a 1.7 percent drop in volume, a measure of products shipped that factors out price and currency fluctuations.Shares of Heinz rose 35 cents yesterday,  to $47.54.PARIS, Nov. 26 — Areva, the French nuclear power giant, signed the largest deal in the industry's history Monday, with China's leading nuclear power company.The agreement will bring both technology and much-needed energy to China, which has the world's fastest-growing appetite for energy. But the deal could prove an even greater boon to Anne Lauvergeon, Areva's chief executive, whose strategies — and optimism — have been questioned by critics.The reasons for skepticism are clear. In recent years, nuclear-powered countries — like the United States, Germany and Japan — have refrained from building more plants, and countries like Italy and Poland, who had none, have refused to plunge into the nuclear age. But as today's deal illustrates, the business of nuclear energy has come alive again, and it is people like Ms. Lauvergeon, her steely temper softened by a lively manner and a captivating laugh, that are bringing it back to life."A nuclear renaissance is now gearing up everywhere in the world," said John B. Ritch III, a former American diplomat and director general of the World Nuclear Association, an industry group. "It is occurring parallel to an enormous expansion in energy consumption."The daughter of a professor and the niece of an archaeologist, Ms. Lauvergeon felt drawn to antiquity as a girl — until her uncle took her on her first dig one summer."I discovered it was a lot of dirt, dirty hands, and crawling around on all fours," Ms. Lauvergeon, 48, said, explaining how her interest shifted from the past to the future.Ms. Lauvergeon's long path from dirty hands to clean energy took some unexpected turns, including ones through the halls of power at the Élysées Palace, where she served as a top adviser to François Mitterrand, and into the bastions of the very male business world, leaving her, in the end, one of the most powerful women in corporate Europe.Ms. Lauvergeon grew up in Orleans, the heartland of France, where her father was a professor of geography. Her interest in the past gradually made way for college studies in chemistry and physics, leading to a degree from the École des Mines in Paris, an elite engineering school.After graduation she worked for several French companies, including the former Usinor steel company, now part of the Arcelor-Mittal steel group. In the first half of the 1990's, she was Mr. Mitterrand's lead aide on international trade issues. In 1995, she became a partner in Paris at Lazard Frères, spending several months in the investment bank's New York office.Today, Ms. Lauvergeon spends much of her time on the road, selling Areva's nuclear products and services. When she is in Paris, she makes time to drop off her two children, ages 8 and 4, at their private school."I started late," she confesses. Her husband, Olivier, is also in business.Even as the nuclear industry opens new projects around the globe, the industry has been consolidating. After Toshiba's $5.4 billion takeover of Westinghouse, General Electric and Hitachi joined forces in a $2 billion deal. Russia has carved Atomstroyexport, the Russian nuclear power company, out of the old Soviet atomic energy ministry.In France, Ms. Lauvergeon assembled Areva in 2001 from the bickering factions of France's state-owned nuclear establishment, the fuel company Cogema and the reactor builder Framatome, creating arguably the world's only one-stop nuclear shop, selling uranium, reactors, fuel reprocessing and waste storage.It was around this time that she first visited a nuclear reactor. "It was clean, very modern, and I was impressed by the idea that a tiny amount of uranium produced a huge amount of energy," she said. And this, she added, despite her being at the time, "very ecolo," French slang for environmentalist."At the time, many said we had no future," she recalled. "I said, 'We have a future, and we should invest.' In this new situation, we're very attractive."Of course, much of the increasing appeal of nuclear power has to do with the rising cost of oil and the need to reduce the level of greenhouse emissions. Companies like Westinghouse, General Electric and Areva, which design and build nuclear power plants, are taking advantage, landing contracts in Asia and even turning their sights on Western countries, like the United States."It's not expensive, and the costs are totally predictable," Ms. Lauvergeon said recently in her office in a meticulously restored Art Deco building in the center of Paris. "The cost of uranium is only 5 percent of your costs." Moreover, she said, nuclear energy is not dependent on foreign sources of fuel and produces no greenhouse gases.Not everyone shares her enthusiasm. "Currently there is no safe way to deal with radioactive waste," said Nathan Argent, who follows the industry for Greenpeace, one of many antinuclear groups. They argue, moreover, that the spread of nuclear technology leads to the proliferation of atomic weapons.Ms. Lauvergeon insists Areva is not in the business of proliferation. "Without ambiguity, we don't accept to do business with countries that don't accept, without doubt, international controls," she said.Some governments heed their antinuclear constituencies. Germany, once a leader in nuclear energy, is committed to exiting nuclear energy by 2020; Sweden is similarly committed to phase out its nuclear plants by 2010.But Ms. Lauvergeon highlights Areva's experience in converting spent fuel into mixed oxide, or MOX, pellets that can be burned in nuclear reactors. She can speak with conviction because France, unlike most of the world, never backed away from atomic power. Roughly 80 percent of the country's electricity is generated by nuclear plants.The new government of President Nicolas Sarkozy is giving Ms. Lauvergeon a helping hand. Addressing the United Nations, and on trips to Mediterranean countries, notably Libya and Morocco, Mr. Sarkozy has promoted French nuclear technology.And he was present at the signing of the Areva-CGNPG agreement, according to Xinhua.Areva will supply the China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group with two cutting-edge nuclear reactors in the city of Taishan in the southern province of Quangdong. Areva will also help run and maintain the plants, whose design will include a European pressurized water reactor, or EPR.Under the 8 billion euro ($11.86 billion) deal, Areva will also cooperate with the Chinese on future civilian nuclear energy, including the reprocessing of spent fuel.In the first nine months of 2007 Areva generated revenue of $11.6 billion, up 6.8 percent from the year before, building power plants, but also mining and processing uranium, and disposing of spent fuel. Its order book in the first half-year was up 30 percent, at $45 billion,  before the Chinese deal.Areva is currently building two new EPR plants in France and in Finland.But Ms. Lauvergeon faces strong competition from companies like Westinghouse, General Electric and Atomstroyexport. She says she is not fazed, noting that Areva is taking the battle to Westinghouse's home turf: it reached a joint venture with Constellation Energy, a Baltimore utility, to sell its power plants in the United States, and it is cooperating with Électricité de France, the French utility, to penetrate the American market.Now Areva needs cash to grow, and the French government is considering all options, including selling shares in Areva. Less than 5 percent of Areva trades on the Paris exchange, in nonvoting investment certificates; a possible merger with the French turbinemaker Alstom  would create an even more muscular competitor. This likelihood has driven Areva's shares up more than 50 percent over the last year. Ms. Lauvergeon says she favors joining with "one or two industrial partners."But the centerpiece of Ms. Lauvergeon's sales pitch is of course the EPR, which she has sold to China. Areva is building the first of its kind in a dark pine forest in Finland. But the Finnish project is years behind schedule and news reports have set cost overruns as high as $1 billion.Ms. Lauvergeon, who says Areva does not publish the provisions it makes for such losses, acknowledges that  the company is unlikely to make money on the project. But she even puts an optimistic spin on the loss."It's an investment, an incredible show window," she says.Apparently, the Chinese agreed.OVER the past few years — and this will probably come as no surprise to anyone who has gotten on a plane over this Thanksgiving weekend — flying in coach has become an increasingly miserable experience. Legroom is practically nonexistent. Passengers are more tightly packed together. Hot meals have been eliminated. Ditto pillows and blankets. And the next time that guy in front of you leans his seat back directly into your face, few of your fellow passengers are likely to blame you if you feel a brief, murderous urge to strike back.All this has created a generation of fliers who now view getting on a plane as roughly akin to entering the ninth circle of hell.Doug Fesler, an executive at a medical research group in Washington, wasn't expecting much in the way of amenities on his American Airlines flight to Honolulu in September. In fact, knowing the airline no longer served free meals, he had packed his own lunch for the second leg of his flight from Dallas to Honolulu. But he said he was shocked at the lack of basic services and the overall condition of the cabin.On that flight, the audio for the movie was broken. The light that indicated when the bathroom was occupied was squirrely, causing confusion and, in some cases, embarrassingly long waits for passengers in need of the lavatory. And though food was available for purchase, it ran out before the flight attendants could serve the entire cabin, leaving some fellow passengers looking longingly at the snack he had packed.His return flight was just as disappointing. This time the audio for the movie worked — but only in Spanish — and his seat refused to stay in the upright position. "I was just appalled," Mr. Fesler said. "You pay $500 or $600 for a seat, and you expect it to be functional." He said he has considered refusing to fly airlines with such poor service, but added that "if you did that with every airline that made you mad, you'd never get anywhere in this country."Mr. Fesler is hardly alone in his antipathy toward the airlines, as anyone who has spent time reading the angry customer postings on Web sites like flyertalk.com, airlinerage.com and flightsfromhell.com knows.The fact is that airlines, flying so close to full capacity today, have realized that they really don't have to cater to economy passengers — most of whom are booking on price alone, and who increasingly have no real airline loyalty — because the cost of doing so would never be worth it in pure bottom-line terms.Does that sound harsh? Well, an unexpected — but not totally surprising — insight into how airline executives think these days came this summer when B. Ben Baldanza, chief executive of the aggressively bare-bones Spirit Airlines, hit "reply all" to an e-mail message from a passenger who wished to be compensated for a delayed flight that caused him to miss a concert he was planning to attend. Mr. Baldanza's response, which seemed to be intended only for a Spirit Airlines employee but subsequently appeared on multiple travel blogs, said: "Please respond, Pasquale, but we owe him nothing as far as I'm concerned. Let him tell the world how bad we are. He's never flown us before anyway and will be back when we save him a penny."While Mr. Baldanza may regret the manner in which his e-mail statement was delivered, his position hasn't changed. "The point that I was making in that e-mail, maybe not as politically correctly as I should have, is let's not over-obsess or spend a lot of money dealing with customers with completely unrealistic expectations," he said, pointing out that the delay was due to weather and that the passenger was offered a $200 voucher toward future flights even though he had paid only $73 for two round-trip tickets. "When the fare's this cheap, we're going to get another customer," he said.Thus airlines are increasingly cutting back services in coach or charging passengers for things that used to be free, like meals ($5 for a snack box on United) or drinks ($2 for a 16-fluid-ounce bottle of water on Spirit) or, in the case of Delta, US Airways, Northwest and Continental, starting to use narrow-body planes more frequently on trans-Atlantic flights, making those long-haul flights more cost-effective, albeit at the expense of passenger comfort.It's all simple economics. In January, United removed half-ounce pretzel snack mixes from the economy section of flights that are less than two hours long, about 29 percent of its flights, to save what it says is about $650,000 a year. (Cutting out pretzels has reportedly saved Northwest $2 million a year.) Meanwhile, American has estimated that it would save $30 million a year by eliminating free meal service in coach. Last September, in a move that extinguished any hope of hot meals returning to coach, the airline removed the rear galleys — including the oven — from its MD-80 aircraft and replaced them with four seats. That change, the airline told The Washington Post, will be worth an additional $34 million a year. Overall, the amount of money the nine largest passenger carriers in the United States spend on food per passenger has been slashed to about $3.40 from $5.92 in 1992, according to the Department of Transportation.And wonder why it's almost impossible to get a pillow anymore? Again, it comes down to money. American has said it saved $300,000 when it removed pillows from its MD-80s in November 2004. In February 2005 it began removing pillows from 737s, 757s and Airbus 300s on nearly all flights within the continental United States, Canada, the Caribbean and Mexico, with the airline explaining that the change saved it $600,000.The story is much different in the front of the plane — and it's not just things like the four-course meal (served on china, with real utensils, and with a choice of four wines) that American now serves its business-class passengers on overseas flights and the fact that, yes, a pillow and a blanket still await you.Passengers flying business class on United from Washington Dulles to Frankfurt, for example, are now offered "180-degree lie-flat" seats. The upgraded seats, which are part of a multimillion-dollar makeover of its international premium cabins, transform into 6-foot-4-inch beds and feature larger personal TV screens, iPod adapters and noise-canceling headphones. Delta Air Lines and American are also upgrading their upper-class cabins on international flights with such features as wider, bedlike seats, improved in-flight entertainment, and new food options. And Delta and United have turned to celebrity chefs — Michelle Bernstein for Delta and Charlie Trotter for United — to create menus for its business-  and first-class customers.Of course, the airlines insist they have not completely abandoned the economy segment of the market. In fact, Delta and Continental are making their commitment to the average passenger the signature element of their new ad campaigns, with Delta adding individual television screens on all its coast-to-coast flights among other things and Continental rolling out video-on-demand systems on its trans-Atlantic flights. "We do a lot of work up front, but not at the expense of the back of the cabin," said Eric Kleiman, the director of product marketing for Continental.And some low-cost carriers are flying newer planes with better amenities like sleek leather seats, satellite television for each passenger and even, as in the case of JetBlue, removing seats to add legroom in coach.Airlines insist they want to please all their passengers, but concede that it all comes down to the bottom line. "We certainly provide a great deal of attention to passengers willing to pay the premium price," said Charley Wilson, managing director for external communications at American. "We want to make sure that a passenger had a first-rate customer experience. The passenger who is buying a ticket from us based on price sensitivity — we also want to make sure they have a comfortable flight. But the way we chiefly derive a profit from any given flight is the passenger willing to pay the premium."United says just 8 percent of its customers — the ones paying a premium for first and business class — generate 36 percent of passenger revenue. That's why it is investing hundreds of millions of dollars to upgrade its first-  and business-class cabins with lie-flat seating and other amenities across its entire international fleet of wide-body aircraft.Industry analysts say that most airlines have rightly decided that it makes little economic sense to provide expensive perks to customers paying the lowest fares."With the spread of low-cost airlines," said Philip Baggaley, senior airline credit analyst at Standard & Poor's, most of the major carriers "have come to the conclusion that they're not able to get a higher fare for offering added service."In fact, one much-touted effort to make the flying experience a more comfortable one for economy passengers — American's 2000 experiment of taking two rows out of coach to create some extra legroom among the remaining seats — was dismantled three years later, and the rows returned to the cabin. The extra room just didn't pay off financially."The environment changed, and customers were very attentive to how much a fare cost," said Lauri Curtis, American's vice president for onboard service. A product that "no one was willing to pay for," she said, "doesn't make sense."THE ever-yawning gap between the coach and the business-  and first-class experience is perhaps nowhere more noticeable than on international flights, where United States carriers are scrambling to keep pace with well-regarded airlines like Singapore Airlines, Cathay Pacific Airways and Emirates Airline, as well as fend off the competition from low-cost business-class carriers like Eos and MaxJet, which offer fares often less than those of the standard carriers.It's both a push and pull situation in that the international markets are more attractive," Mr. Baggaley said. "They're growing more quickly. The airlines often have more pricing power on those routes because there are fewer competitors."All of this restructuring has helped airlines make money again, even in the face of soaring fuel prices. After losing a cumulative $35 billion between 2001 and 2005, United States airlines recorded their first profitable year of the millennium in 2006, according to the Air Transport Association, when the industry posted a $3 billion net profit. This year, the association projects earnings to be in the $5 billion range.Of course, knowing that the airline you've just flown is more financially solvent is not much consolation when you realize your luggage hasn't arrived with you or after you almost got into a fistfight with the passenger next to you because neither would yield the armrest."There is no question the cattle-class experience has contributed to the rise and intensity of air rage incidents all over the world," said Andrew Robert Thomas, an assistant professor of business at the University of Akron, who has written books about air rage and maintains the Web site airrage.org."More people in a smaller space experiencing a naturally stressful environment will trigger different reactions in some folks, and a number will be violent," he added. "With the cutbacks continuing and the number of air travelers projected to triple in the next 20 years, air rage will be a problem for the foreseeable future."The airlines do acknowledge that while their finances have improved, they must do a better job of convincing the average traveler that they understand that these savings have come at a cost to the customer experience."We recognize we have missed some opportunities in the last couple of years to do the right thing from the customer experience, as we have tried to save our company financially," said Mark Mitchell, managing director of customer experience, a newly created position at American. "We have fallen off, especially in the last 18 to 24 months." He said he was hired to "work on the broken pieces of our airline," including how American handles delays, the boarding process, cabin cleaning, baggage handling and flight attendant interactions with customers.Some passengers seem to feel that the airlines should just acknowledge that the flying experience is no longer a glamorous or, at times, even tolerable one — especially back in coach — and that it's something passengers are going to have to accept."I actually have more respect for Southwest Airlines in this area," said Julie Hurwitz, an executive assistant from Los Angeles, referring to that  historically no-frills airline. "They've never pretended to have more than they do."
