 IF you ask for investment advice, many wizened Wall Street veterans will tell you the same thing: "Bet on the jockey. Not the horse."It's a major reason so many of them are rich.You want to invest in the jockey (a company's chief executive, in the metaphor) because you can't predict what will happen to the business (the horse). Competition can spring up overnight. A new technology may throw everything into flux. Interest rates may suddenly rise or fall. The list of possible variables is endless.You need to have faith that the C.E.O.  will be able to deal with it all. If he can't, you would be better off putting your money elsewhere.Given that this old investment chestnut has worked so well, it isn't surprising that a 45-year industry veteran like Russell Cleveland, principal founder and majority stakeholder at the RENN Capital Group, an investment management firm, uses it as his thesis for his advice in "Finding Midas" (Greenleaf Book Group Press, $19.95).He modifies the jockey analogy slightly. "To take a new twist on an old, yet appropriate slogan from the past, you will quickly realize it is not the stock market, stupid, it's the C.E.O."When he invests, Mr. Cleveland says he looks for a specific type of  chief executive, someone who is "entrepreneurial," even if he is not the founder of the company."Entrepreneurial management concentrates on seeking new opportunities, trying to fulfill the needs of others," he writes. "Professional management is mostly about making assets more effective and efficient. Both types of management are important, but in our economy it is the entrepreneurs who create the economic growth and wealth for everyone else."With that as a starting point, Mr. Cleveland says the C.E.O.'s of companies you're considering for investment should do these four things: OWN  A LOT OF STOCK THEMSELVES  The chief executive  needs to own 5 percent to 10 percent of the company's stock at the "absolute minimum," he says.Mr. Cleveland says  this is the most important of the four criteria — and that it's just  common sense. When C.E.O.'s have considerable "skin in the game," to use Mr. Cleveland's phrase, they have a very real interest in making sure that their companies do  well."The C.E.O.'s personal equity investment in the company becomes a measure of the nature and extent of his commitment to the company," Mr. Cleveland writes. "Unlike a mere stock option, a significant personal equity investment provides the C.E.O. with a significant reward for generating positive results for shareholders. At the same time, it imposes a significant penalty for negative results."  KNOW WHERE THEY WANT TO GO This is what the first President Bush called  "the vision thing." Mr. Cleveland says that you should  invest in a company only after you clearly understand the C.E.O.'s strategy and  can see that it has been internalized by everyone in the organization, so  that all workers know where they fit in.RUN  A PROFITABLE OPERATION Mr. Cleveland says the idea that a company can lose a lot of money in order to obtain market share, then use its market power to control prices "is one of the most unsuccessful strategies we have ever heard of." The companies in which you  invest  need to be making money."Do you think Bill Gates and Sam Walton ever lost millions of dollars getting their business under way?" he asks.RUN A COMPANY YOU CAN BUY AT A REASONABLE PRICE Reasonable, Mr. Cleveland says, does not mean cheap. But you are looking for a company that has a relatively low price-to-earnings ratio and trades at a low multiple of sales.Mr. Cleveland says he believes that you can quantify all four factors in making  investment decisions. He does his grading on a 100-point scale.For example, if the C.E.O. owns 5 percent to 10 percent of the company, the investment receives 25 points. If he has more than a 10 percent stake, it gets  35 points. (Less than 5 percent ownership gets a zero.)You can award up to 15 points for the C.E.O.'s strategy, depending on the clarity of the vision, and up to 25 points for profitability.As for reasonable price, Mr. Cleveland awards 25 points if the company's market capitalization  is less than one times revenue; 20 points if that multiple is one to two; 15 points if it is two to three  and 5  points if it is  between three and four. Over that? No points."Using this system, you would not select any company whose score was less than 75," he writes.His approach is simple enough. The question is, is it right for you?Given his insistence that the C.E.O. own a significant equity stake, most of the stocks  that fit his guidelines will be small or emerging companies.  Indeed, he says, he has spent  most of his career investing in such businesses.These companies, of course, can be  extremely volatile places to invest. If a company with $100 billion in sales loses a $20 million client, it is basically a rounding error. If a company with $100 million in revenue loses that $20 million client, the results can be devastating.Mr. Cleveland also says you can put together a diversified investment portfolio with as few as 10 companies that fit his criteria. But that would amount to an extremely concentrated bet on one part of the stock market: emerging growth companies.You can also quibble with how easy Mr. Cleveland makes his investment system sound.Consider his second point:  understanding a company's vision. He says  you can discover that vision by reading the company's annual report. But most such documents aren't exactly models of clarity. And unless you interview a substantial number of employees, how can  you go about discovering if the rank and file is clear on its role in the vision?All of that said, Mr. Cleveland has provided a useful primer on how to screen for smaller companies that you may want to add to your portfolio. And anything that helps you make better investment decisions about even a portion of your portfolio is welcome.STOCKS receiving coverage by analysts for the first time tend to jump significantly — 13 percent in three months on average, according to a study by the University of Florida — so the obvious question is, Where will Wall Street turn its attention next?Smart Money thinks it knows. It has identified four companies that it says Wall Street researchers will discover soon. "These stocks tend to be small, with little trading activity and offer value simply because not as many people know about them," Evelyn Ellison Twitchell wrote.The first stock she wrote about, though, has been around for 200 years: the publisher John Wiley & Sons, which began by printing the works of authors like Edgar Allan Poe. It is also the publisher of the popular For Dummies series.The other three companies were SureWest Communications, a local phone service company in Sacramento; American Science and Engineering, a beneficiary of increased security measures because it makes X-ray equipment that detects explosives and drugs; and Mueller Industries, which makes copper tubes and fittings used in home construction.If you are looking for a way to invest in undercovered stocks, Ms. Twitchell noted that an exchange traded fund opened last September, the Claymore/Sabrient Stealth E.T.F., "which provides exposure to an index of 150 stocks covered by two or fewer analysts."SPIN TO WIN Last year, when Agilent Technologies spun off Verigy, its semiconductor business, shares in the new company took off. Verigy is up 55 percent since the spinoff, compared with a 9 percent climb in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index during that time.Sally Beauty Holdings is up 20 percent, in a period when the S.& P. climbed only 7 percent, since being shed by the Alberto-Culver Company.These gains are not a coincidence, according to Kiplinger's."Studies have shown that spinoffs are very good investments," the magazine wrote. "Lehman Brothers found that spinoffs beat the S.& P. 500 by an average of 18 percentage points in their first two years as independent companies."The magazine offers three possible explanations for this success.First, managers of the new companies often have incentives "tied directly to its performance in a way that was impossible in a larger company."Second, the new stock often trades at a discount initially, as shareholders who receive the stock in the spinoff sell it, content to hold on to what remains of the parent company.Also, "the market often assigns a higher value to easy-to-understand companies."ASIA NOW Ten years ago this month, a financial panic forced the so-called tiger economies of Indonesia, Malaysia and other Asian nations into recession and set off a spate of bankruptcies.A lot can happen in a decade, Bloomberg Markets reports. The Asian countries have diversified their exports, thanks in large part to a consumption boom in China, and have reduced their debt. As a result their stock markets are soaring.For the 12 months that ended May 9, the Malaysia market was up 44 percent; the Philippines and Indonesia each climbed 36 percent. Singapore was up 35 percent, and Thailand was up 6 percent.SERIOUS PURSE STRINGS Pink magazine reports that women frequently make the buying decisions in many categories where marketing attention is traditionally focused  on men.According to the numbers compiled by Marti Barletta in her book "Marketing to Women," women drive the purchasing decisions in the following categories: home improvement, 80 percent; computers, 66 percent; new cars, 60+ percent; consumer electronics, 55 percent; and investments, 53 percent.FINAL TAKE Cosmopolitan, citing an unnamed online dating study, said that women would "relax their standards of how tall they want their mate to be" if the man earned enough money.How much?A man who is 5-foot-6 would need to make $175,000 more a year to be considered as desirable as a man who is 6 feet tall.When top lawyers for the accounting firm KPMG sat down in secret with federal prosecutors to plead with them not to indict the firm in connection with its work on questionable tax shelters, they faced a life-or-death battle."Enron was only $1 billion; this fraud is much bigger," one of the prosecutors, Justin Weddle, told a senior lawyer for KPMG during a meeting in Manhattan in March 2005, according to recently released notes taken by one of the KPMG lawyers, Joseph Barloon of Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom.The stakes could not have been higher. An indictment would most likely have meant the firm's demise, as it did with Enron's accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, in 2002. KPMG in fact narrowly averted indictment after agreeing  to pay a $456 million fine, admit wrongdoing and cooperate with a Justice Department investigation into its former employees, a case that continues to be closely watched by the legal community.Now Mr. Barloon's notes of meetings from March through June 2005, which were made public in June in connection with the related criminal trial of 16 former KPMG tax employees, provide a  rare and detailed look inside the closed-door process of those dealings."We almost never get a front-row seat to a negotiation between a major multinational company and the United States government," said Stephanie Martz, director of the White Collar Crime Project.The previously unseen notes convey the twists and turns of a legal drama, for sure — but for some criminal defense lawyers, their language bolsters the contention that the prosecution of KPMG was particularly zealous.KPMG fulfilled a two-year deferred prosecution agreement with the government last December and avoided criminal charges, but the effects of its  ordeal continue.The handling of the case has significant implications for the prosecution of its former employees, as well as for a criminal case against Deutsche Bank, which is under federal investigation into its tax shelter work. No charges have been filed against it.The federal judge overseeing the prosecution of the former KPMG employees on criminal tax shelter charges has said that the government was coercive and violated the constitutional rights of the defendants by pressing KPMG to cut off payment of their legal fees as a condition of avoiding indictment itself.But to other legal observers, the notes of the discussions also highlight the gray areas between coercion and cooperation that typify corporate criminal investigations."There's a lot of posturing going on on both sides," said Peter Henning, a former lawyer in the Justice Department's criminal fraud division, after reviewing the notes. "The government was threatening to put KPMG out of business, but I don't think they were serious."The first meeting between KPMG and the prosecution described  in the notes took place on March 2, 2005, at the Manhattan office of federal prosecutors for the Southern District of New York.At that time, the government was furious with KPMG. The firm had effectively withheld information from Congressional and Internal Revenue Service investigators who were scrutinizing tax shelters; it had earlier resisted government efforts to compel it to turn over documents.Mr. Barloon, the lawyer for KPMG who took the notes, wrote that David Kelley, the lead prosecutor, described the meeting as "a settlement discussion," saying early on that "KPMG is in a  grave situation."Mr. Kelley had successfully prosecuted Martha Stewart and Bernard Ebbers of WorldCom. Now he had his sights on KPMG.Robert Bennett, a top criminal defense lawyer for Skadden Arps who represented KPMG, made an argument he would repeat to prosecutors over the next several months: that bringing charges against the firm or even deferring charges through a deferred-prosecution agreement would create "a death spiral" for KPMG and the American economy.When another federal prosecutor, Shirah Neiman, asked Eugene O'Kelly, the KPMG chairman at the time, how much the firm was prepared to pay as a fine, Mr. O'Kelly said KPMG had set aside $100 million, or $40,000 of each partner's average $570,000 annual salary. Mr. O'Kelly then outlined a  proposal, short on details, in which KPMG would "acknowledge wrongdoing by former partners," pay an unspecified fine, restrict its tax practice and cooperate with investigators.The prosecution left the room for 10 minutes and returned unimpressed. Mr. Kelley, the lead prosecutor, said that he was concerned that a previous change at KPMG, including a shake-up of its top ranks, "doesn't scrub the culture" and "is more cosmetic than substantive.""You keep using the word 'acknowledge,' " Mr. Kelley said. "I don't like acknowledge, I like admission of guilt."Mr. Kelley, who joined a private law firm, Cahill Gordon & Reindel in September 2005, said in a brief telephone interview that "I wouldn't comment on any of those discussions, but recognize that there is no one in the room taking verbatim transcripts of my discussion, and consequently it would be subject to their own interpretation."Mr. Bennett declined comment. Mr. Barloon did not return phone calls seeking comment.On March 18,  KPMG lawyers sat down before prosecutors with their own statement of facts. At the meeting, Mr. Kelley was unimpressed, saying, according to Mr. Barloon's notes, "you look on the sword but don't fall on the sword." Ms. Neiman criticized it as full of "appalling euphemisms" and as "soft and mushy."There was a reason for the language. Mr. Bennett, the top Skadden lawyer, said during the meeting that "we did not know all the facts behind any possible wrongdoing because we did not conduct an internal investigation." The government, concerned about KPMG's actions in the past, had pressed KPMG not to conduct its own internal inquiry.Two days later, on March 22, 2005, Mr. Barloon, the Skadden lawyer for KPMG, met with Mr. Weddle."I explained that we had modeled our statement on the statements in other agreements," Mr. Barloon's notes say, adding, "he wasn't expecting an admission of guilt, was he?" Mr. Barloon's notes cite Mr. Weddle as saying, "If you don't want to draw inferences and make a strong statement, the government will do it for you. It's called an indictment."On March 19, 2005, Joseph Loonan, an internal KPMG lawyer, sent an e-mail message to Mr. Barloon, the Skadden lawyer, saying that the statement of facts that prosecutors wanted KPMG to use as its admission "is not of facts but of conclusions based on some facts, distortions of facts and adverse inferences."Calling the proposed statement "false, misleading and unsupportable," Mr. Loonan urged a strategy of fighting back  and cited a trademark line by the singer and songwriter  Kris Kristofferson, "Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose."Ms. Martz, who has criticized what she calls government coerciveness in the case, said that "it remains shocking to me that the Southern District would basically push a statement of fact down KPMG's throat without the company knowing itself whether everything in it is accurate."By April, the situation had gotten worse for KPMG. In an April 26, 2005, meeting with KPMG lawyers, Mr. Kelley now argued that   "in the big accounting fraud cases where they play with the books, they are doing a legitimate service wrongly,"  according to Mr. Barloon's notes. "Here this is quite different because the very service being provided was corrupt and criminal."A spokeswoman for the Southern District of New York declined to comment yesterday on the notes. A KPMG spokeswoman would say only that "KPMG reached an agreement with the government nearly two years ago to resolve this matter."On June 13, 2005, KPMG lawyers and  executives met with the deputy attorney general, James B. Comey, and federal prosecutors. It was a highly unusual meeting, Mr. Comey said, according to the notes, adding that he had never met with outside lawyers for a firm facing indictment.Mr. Barloon's notes of that meeting show that Mr. Bennett began by quietly but intensely asking Mr. Comey not to indict KPMG. "If we go under, that will disrupt not only KPMG clients but also the national economy," Mr. Bennett argued.Mr. Comey countered that the wrongdoing at KPMG "went everywhere — up, down, sideways — at least in the tax business," and asked Mr. Bennett if the firm had considering pleading guilty and spinning off its tax practice. Mr. Bennett said that the firm had considered but rejected such an idea.Rod Rosenstein, the deputy assistant attorney general, who was at the meeting, asked whether the Justice Department was "setting a precedent that we can't prosecute somebody if they come and clean everything up."But earlier in the meeting, Mr. Bennett said that "what was really precedent-setting about the case was the conditioning of the payment of legal fees on cooperation. We said we'd pressure — although we didn't use that word — our employees to cooperate."The notes quote him later as saying "what played out" was "a level of cooperation that is rarely done."PITTSBURGH, July 3 (AP)  — The Canadian aluminum maker Alcan has denied a request by a rival, Alcoa, for further talks on Alcoa's hostile $27.5 billion takeover bid.The board of  Alcan unanimously rejected the unsolicited offer as inadequate in May, urging its shareholders to follow suit. But Alcoa appealed to Alcan last month, asking for access to business documents reportedly provided to third parties.On June 27, Alcan's president and chief executive, Richard B. Evans, said in an e-mail message to Alcoa's chairman and chief executive, Alain J. P. Belda, that Alcan saw "no reason to engage in further discussions or correspondence."Mr. Belda replied in a letter the next day that Alcoa still wanted to consider looking for greater value for Alcan shareholders, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.An Alcoa spokesman, Kevin Lowery, said Alcoa still hoped to complete the transaction."We stand ready to do this," he said. "We're a little perplexed about the change of heart."Anik Michaud, a spokeswoman for Alcan, declined to confirm reports that Alcan had provided documents pertaining to its business to third parties."Alcoa had two years to make a compelling offer and they never did," she said. "All we've said so far is we are actively pursuing other alternatives."In May,  The Globe and Mail, the Canadian newspaper, reported that Alcan  entered into talks with the Australian mining giant BHP Billiton, citing people familiar with the situation. Analysts have said that such negotiations may be under way and that other suitors may  be waiting  as Alcan seeks  a richer offer for its shareholders.Alcoa  started its cash-and-stock bid for the firm, which is based in Montreal,  on May 7 after almost two years of private talks failed to produce a negotiated agreement.A lot of Wall Street Journal reporters and editors worry about the nature of their jobs in a takeover by Rupert Murdoch. But for some of them, the alternative may be no job at all.If the $5 billion bid by Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation to buy Dow Jones & Company, which owns The Journal, falls through, declining advertising will mean significant cuts in The Journal's newsroom staff, according to senior editors and a person close to Dow Jones management, who said they were told individually by company executives.Some of these people say that if Mr. Murdoch's offer had not put other considerations on hold, the news staff would have been trimmed already.If Dow Jones remains independent, a reduction in the size of the news staff will probably begin within a few months, and will most likely  take the form of buyouts rather than layoffs, these people said. Some jobs might be eliminated even if the deal goes through, they said, though Mr. Murdoch has signaled that he would increase the staff over all.A company spokesman called questions about possible reductions  "too speculative to comment on."Dow Jones is hardly alone. The newspaper industry broadly is suffering through a decline in advertising revenue, its main source of income, and analysts say that trend is a fundamental, long-term shift, not part of up-and-down cycles. A report on the industry published last week by Goldman Sachs said that in light of the expanding economy, "the magnitude of the recent declines is extraordinary," and that May was "the worst month we've ever seen in a nonrecession period."Many other companies have reacted with staff reductions, and newsrooms across the country —  including those at The Los Angeles Times, The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Boston Globe (which is owned by The New York Times Company)  — are shrinking.Several factors, though, set The Journal apart from other newspapers, in ways that make cuts there more likely  — including a slender profit margin that gives it less room to maneuver. While most major American papers have eliminated jobs in their news departments in recent years, The Journal has expanded as it added a Saturday edition and introduced features in print and online, so that its news staff stands at an all-time high of 760. And the paper is continuing to fill open positions.At the same time, Dow Jones has been looking to reduce its dependence on print advertising and emphasize its digital properties, like MarketWatch and Factiva.Traditionally, ad spending grew along with a growing economy, but no more. From mid-2005 to the end of 2006, ad revenue for the major newspaper companies increased barely 1 percent. The Journal was an exception, with ad revenue rising 8.8 percent in 2006 over 2005, but that was in large part because 2006 was the first full year that the Saturday Journal was published.So far, 2007 is shaping up much worse than even the dourest predictions, with ad revenue among the major newspaper companies down about 5 percent through May, and down 4.2 percent at The Journal (though its much smaller overseas editions have had healthy increases). Officials at The Journal say ad revenue is running tens of millions of dollars behind the projections made at the start of the year.And The Journal, like other financial publications, relies heavily on business-to-business advertising, which aims for corporate customers more than retail consumers.This sector — which pitches, say, overnight mail delivery and management consulting services  — took a nose dive at the end of the dot-com era and has never really recovered.B-to-B advertisers, in particular, have moved their dollars online, especially those that sell computers and related equipment. The Internet allows them to pinpoint their audiences and gives them the space and flexibility to convey complicated messages.I.B.M., for example, was the top single advertiser in the print Journal in 2004, spending more than $41 million, but that fell to $17 million in 2006, when it was eighth-largest among the paper's advertisers, according to estimates from TNS Media Intelligence. For the first five months of this year, I.B.M. fell to No. 34.Other publications  — like The New York Times, Forbes and Fortune magazines —  have felt the cutbacks at I.B.M. Its overall magazine and newspaper ad spending dropped to just under $37 million last year from $144.6 million in 2004, according to TNS  — a faster rate overall than the percentage drop at The Journal."Mass media, we still use it, but it's become less and less something we rely on," said Deirdre Bigley, I.B.M.'s vice president for worldwide advertising at I.B.M. "We still are very supportive of traditional media, but I'd say that our focus has gone to more Web properties."Some other big advertisers have notably cut their spending in The Journal. Dell's  spending in the newspaper plummeted to barely $6 million last year from almost $26 million in 2005. But other companies increased Journal advertising. Microsoft spent roughly $32 million more in 2006 than it did in 2004, according to TNS data. Other advertisers like Exxon Mobil, Sprint and Allstate increased their spending as well.For most of this decade, advertising aimed at consumers has fared better than B-to-B, and The Journal has tried hard to capture more of that market, one reason the Saturday edition was created.But now consumer advertising  —  automotive and real estate, in particular  — have sharply diminished or joined the growing exodus to the Web. Even so, there are plenty of other consumer advertisers, like packaged-goods and luxury-product companies that are keeping their offline spending high.In the first quarter of 2007, about 60 percent of Journal revenue came from B-to-B ads, and, in recent years, Dow Jones financial statements have warned that the company might rely too heavily on that."B-to-B advertisers are early adopters, I think, to more targeted media online," said L. Gordon Crovitz, executive vice president of Dow Jones and publisher of The Wall Street Journal, in a telephone interview.Mr. Crovitz said he thought that B-to-B advertising would not return to the levels it reached during the Internet bubble of the late 1990s, but that his paper was well-positioned to sell both print and online ads. Last month, Dow Jones created a chief revenue officer post to manage online and offline sales in an integrated fashion, Mr. Crovitz said. And when Dow Jones sells Internet and print ads in a package, it typically collects 20 percent more revenue than when it sells them separately, he added.But executives at advertising and marketing agencies say it is unclear whether B-to-B advertising will stick with traditional print outlets in the long run. Spending on ads in business magazines and national newspapers fell 23 percent from 2001 to 2005, according to B-to-B magazine, which will release 2006 figures in the fall. In that same period, B-to-B advertising on the Internet was up 240 percent.B-to-B product messages are often more complex than ads about a new car or breakfast cereal, so B-to-B ads work particularly well online, where space for product specifications is unlimited, Ms. Bigley of I.B.M. said. B-to-B advertisers learn the Internet allows them to display more information than they ever could in print."Since 2000, we've had continuous double-digit growth as far as investing in the Internet," said Nancy Wiese, vice president for advertising at Xerox. "It's coming from both print and television. It's not that we're growing budgets, unfortunately."B-to-B messages are also  aimed more at specific groups than  consumer ads are, and the Internet allows for such precision. In consumer ads, "you'll be talking to millions of people," said Eduardo Conrado, vice president for global marketing and communications at Motorola. "On the B-to-B side, we are actually talking to a few thousand, and we know most of them."While all advertisers want better measurement of their ads, the B-to-B niche has been particularly aggressive in demanding more data about their ads, said Mike Dukmejian, group publisher at Time Inc.'s business and finance network."It is response-driven," he said. "Whereas when you get into things like apparel and packaged goods, they are more committed to brands, and brand building is not about every single data point."SCARSDALE, N.Y. (AP) —  Harry B. Henshel, the last member of the Bulova family to run  the Bulova Watch Company, died on June 29 at his home here after a long illness, the company said. He was 88.The Bulova Watch Company was started as a jewelry store by Mr. Henshel's grandfather, Joseph Bulova, in New York in 1875.Mr. Henshel began to work there  after serving in World War II; he  took over as president after  his uncle, Arde Bulova, died in 1958. Mr. Henshel became chairman in 1974.The company became a subsidiary of the Loews Corporation  in 1979.During  Mr. Henshel's tenure, the company introduced the Accutron watch, a groundbreaking battery-powered timepiece. It used an electronically activated tuning fork as the timing mechanism, thus improving  accuracy.Mr. Henshel, who earned degrees from Brown University and Harvard  Business School, also developed the Phototimer, in 1948. It became the first automatic timing device used in sports,  the company said.Mr. Henshel is survived by his wife, Joy, of Scarsdale; four daughters: Dayle, of New York; Patti,  of Bethesda, Md.; Diane, of Bloomington, Ind.; and Judy, of Eugene, Ore.;  and four grandchildren.Allison Lindsay Snider, a daughter of Kathryn Layman Snider and Dr. Gary B. Snider of Virginia Beach, was married yesterday to Dr. Arun Benjamin Jesudian, the son of Dr. Alice Nalini Jesudian of Richmond, Va., and the late Dr. Manoranjan Jesudian. The Rev. Alan G. Reifsnyder, a United Methodist minister, officiated at the Chrysler Museum of Art in Norfolk, Va.The bride and bridegroom, both 28, graduated from the University of Virginia, where they met.The bride is a business strategy consultant in the New York office of Bain & Company, the consulting firm. She received an M.B.A. from Harvard. Her father, a family practitioner, works in the Norfolk office of Sentara Medical Group, a regional health care system.The bridegroom is a second-year resident in internal medicine at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. He received his medical degree from Virginia Commonwealth University, where his mother, a psychiatrist, is an assistant professor of psychiatry and his father was an assistant professor of anesthesiology.
