Mahammed Farooqi, a 49-year-old Pakistani news addict, was snoring through the story of his generation.It was 8 a.m. on Dec. 27, and Benazir Bhutto, Pakistan's opposition leader, had just been assassinated as her motorcade inched through a dense crowd in her homeland.Under ordinary circumstances, Mr. Farooqi would have been the first to know about such a politically transforming event. Every night, while his wife is sleeping peacefully in the bedroom, he dozes on the sofa in the living room of his house in Dix Hills on Long Island, with the television set on.On this historic Thursday, however, neither the television nor the incessant callers from around the world managed to wake him. The previous day, Mr. Farooqi, the editor and publisher of The Pakistan Post, a free, Queens-based newspaper that reveres Ms. Bhutto, had completed his weekly 34-hour sprint to churn out his 20-page issue.Among the more persistent callers was Khalil ur Rehman, a journalist who is Mr. Farooqi's counterpart on the other side of the political fence.Mr. Khalil, a stout, bearded 55-year-old who lives in Shirley, Long Island, is the editor of The Urdu Times, the city's other top Pakistani weekly. His publication fervently supports President Pervez Musharraf, the former general who had been Ms. Bhutto's chief rival since 2002 and who was immediately accused by some members of her party of orchestrating her assassination. He has denied the charge.Predictably, the two editors reacted to the killing in totally opposite fashion."I told him Pakistan isn't dying," Mr. Khalil said. "This thing will be good for Pakistan."But in the opinion of Mr. Farooqi, the killing extinguished hope for democracy in the country from which they both emigrated decades ago. "He's a fascist," Mr. Farooqi said of his counterpart. "He was happy. He said life goes on."The contrast between these two men transcends politics and publishing.Mr. Farooqi is a disheveled, chain-smoking Muslim who boasts of his journalistic exclusives. Mr. Khalil is a dapper, entrepreneurial atheist who enjoys his whiskey and boasts about the lucrative advertisements he garners for his publication.While their Urdu-language pages exploit the divided political loyalties within New York's 400,000-member-strong Pakistani community, these two editors are physically divided only by the wall between the unmarked storefronts in which they work, on Hillside Avenue in the Pakistani enclave in Jamaica, Queens.With parliamentary elections in Pakistan scheduled for Feb. 18, these neighboring storefronts offer a window into Pakistan's embattled politics. Yet in a nation haunted by 60 years of political turmoil, the situation is never as it appears. Nor is the 17-year relationship between these men, who, despite their differing styles and ideologies, were business partners and are now best friends.Shudders and a ShrugThe morning after Ms. Bhutto's killing, in the second-floor newsroom of The Pakistan Post, Mr. Farooqi stared blankly at satellite television coverage showing Ms. Bhutto's coffin bobbing atop a protesting crowd."I'm a psych patient today," he said, lighting a cigarette. "I'm talking, I'm walking, I'm driving, but I have no will to do anything."A year ago, on one of Ms. Bhutto's final visits to New York, Mr. Farooqi had urged her to return home from exile. "I said to her: 'You keep saying Pakistani people should speak out against the regime. Why should they when you're in New York with a big car, a driver and kids in Dubai? You have to face the problem.' " Now he feels guilt-stricken.Next door, in the basement newsroom of The Urdu Times, a very different mood prevailed. There was no television; instead, Mr. Khalil bent over a computer screen and proudly pointed out his newspaper's 14 online editions, which are published in the United States, Canada and Britain."He talks too much about — what do you call it? — democracy," Mr. Khalil said of his rival editor. "He's confused. Bhutto became the prime minister twice, and both terms she wasn't able to resolve the problems."New Lives, Two NewspapersMr. Farooqi has two addictions: cigarettes and journalism. He fixates on both each night, waking up on the hour to smoke — burn marks line his fingers — or to telephone sources in Pakistan in pursuit of his next exclusive."My only skill is journalism," he said a few days after Ms. Bhutto's death, taking a break from drafting an editorial. "I can't do anything else, can't fix a car. My children always say, 'Turn off the phone.' But you know, it's an addiction. To educate people on what is going on, this is my love, this is my passion, this is my romance, this is what I believe my body desires. It's my peanut and butter."Born in a lower-middle-class family in Karachi, Mr. Farooqi began his journalism career in Pakistan in the early 1980s, and in 1986 covered Ms. Bhutto's initial return from exile. It would be his first of dozens of interviews with her; two decades later, in Washington, Ms. Bhutto would preside over the official debut of the English-language edition of his newspaper.But in 1986, with the political situation in Pakistan worsening, the 28-year-old idealist immigrated to Queens. On his second day in Jamaica, he took a job at a grocery store, where for three years he earned $1 an hour dusting magazines. Later he drove a taxi.During those years, Mr. Farooqi started two monthly newspapers. The first folded after one issue. The second lasted 10 issues. His big break came in 1991, when he met Mr. Khalil.Mr. Khalil was raised in an upper-middle-class publishing family in Islamabad. His parents, who were traditional, disapproved of his marrying, claiming he was too young, but he married anyway, and in 1977, at age 24, he moved to Jamaica in search of personal and religious liberation.He found it. "My five children have never set foot in a mosque," he said proudly, as if describing a straight-A report card.Like Mr. Farooqi, Mr. Khalil spent several years working in menial jobs as a grocery store clerk and a deliveryman, but by 1981 he was running a pair of carpet stores. In an expression of his interest in social change, he also became active in the city's then burgeoning Pakistani community.In 1982, when an Indian immigrant began publishing an anti-Pakistani newspaper, Mr. Khalil was so perturbed that he barged into the man's office and begged him to stop writing negatively about his homeland. The publisher dared Mr. Khalil to knock him out of business.An hour later, Mr. Khalil was planning his first newspaper, The Eastern Times. The paper eventually folded, but a few years later, now back on his feet financially, Mr. Khalil was offered a chance to take over a Pakistani newspaper, The Urdu Times.Mr. Khalil jumped at the offer. In 1991, he moved the paper's office from Manhattan to Jamaica and promptly hired a down-and-out as his editor. That man was Mr. Farooqi.A Rift, Then a BondIt seemed like a match made in newspaper heaven. But after only three months, a bitter fight ensued involving financial matters. Regarding this dispute, the two men agree on only one fact: Days after the fight, Mr. Farooqi started The Pakistan Post, and the two didn't speak for the next three years. But by 1994, in response to rising immigration from Pakistan, the Urdu-language newspaper market began to swell. Prompted by economic considerations, the two leading publishers agreed to meet with each other. In a bid to monopolize the market, they said, they set a minimum advertising rate, and they have coexisted ever since.Their publications, meanwhile, became local heavyweights, so much so that in 1995, Ms. Bhutto's party, which was then in power, offered each newspaper $95,000 for a year of positive coverage. At the time, both editors declined the offer and publicized it.Last May, the two had a full-fledged reconciliation, which they both attribute to "old age." Now they talk several times a day and are bound by a shared skepticism of many groups within the Pakistani community, which, they contend, do not have local interests at heart. And each man is the other's favorite companion."If I don't find Mr. Khalil in the evening," Mr. Farooqi said, plopping a cigarette butt into a stale cup of Dunkin' Donuts coffee, "I go directly home."On another occasion, Mr. Khalil said: "The moment I walk into my home, my wife says, 'You're hanging around him?' I say, 'How do you know?' She says, 'Because you smell like cigarettes.' ""And believe me," Mr. Farooqi interjected. "When I get drunk, my wife says, 'You're with Khalil.' "At least once a week the two men travel around the city inspecting the 200 newspaper distribution spots, mostly at diners like Kebab King in Jackson Heights and Punjab Restaurant in Coney Island, where their free papers are stacked atop metal racks. On these visits, they ensure their papers are displayed more prominently than the eight smaller Pakistani weeklies that also compete for the top shelf. Yet theirs is a delicate friendship. On one recent drive, the men were asked if they would ever merge their newspapers."Don't ask touchy questions!" Mr. Farooqi replied with some heat. "All right?"Nasim Syed, a poet and political commentator who has written for both publications, describes the friendship by stretching his hands back and forth as if he is playing an accordion."Come back next week," Mr. Syed said, "and they won't be friends."The Fate of a NationSix days after the Bhutto assassination, in a ballet that involved a complicated blend of political passion and global technology, both Mr. Farooqi and Mr. Khalil were working grueling overnight shifts to close their first issues following her death.Because neither of the editors can type quickly in Urdu, both men fax handwritten articles to Pakistan, where they are typed and laid out. Final proofs are e-mailed back to the editors, and printing takes place at separate presses in Queens.By 8 that night, Mr. Farooqi's grief was all but forgotten."This is the defining moment for Pakistan," he said of the forthcoming elections. "I have the feeling that if we don't understand the situation, we're going to lose the country."Later that night, Mr. Farooqi began working his phone every two minutes, dialing Pakistan with impressive dexterity for a man who cannot type."I've already asked him five times," he said to a source in Urdu. "I'll ask him one more time. Give him the phone. Give it to him in the bathroom."News had arrived: The date for the new election would be announced at 9 in the morning, six hours after both papers were scheduled to go to press. Without a flash of hesitation, Mr. Farooqi opted to wait.His main headline, on the other hand, was already written: "The Benazir killing robs her party, and robs the people of Pakistan." The articles suggested that Ms. Bhutto had been killed not by radical Islamists but by agents of the Musharraf regime.Asma Amanat, a 24-year-old intern who produces the English-language supplement that The Pakistan Post publishes, smirked as the proofs arrived. "It's a Bhutto flier," she said within hearing of her boss. Flipping through the pages of a previous edition, she added: "Here's Bhutto. This is about Bhutto. That's Bhutto there.""She's my critic," Mr. Farooqi said of his intern. "But I don't support Bhutto. I always support democracy, free speech and human rights. And if you believe in that, you have to support Bhutto."Next door at The Urdu Times, Mr. Khalil's ads were in place. He couldn't be bothered to wait for the announcement of the new election date.He summarized his lead story with a shrug: "Musharraf is committed to democracy. He's sincere: Nothing will change."Mr. Khalil acknowledges that his politics are driven more by practicality than by ideology. "This used to be a passion, but now it's a business," he said. "For the last 25 years, my kids, my wife, everybody suffered because of this newspaper. So nowadays we write whatever our readers want."Ideally, he said, Pakistan would not be run by a military dictatorship. But he does not believe that a country in which a plate of biryani still buys a vote is ready for democracy.President Musharraf, he said, has developed local industry and is the appropriate strongman to confront potentially divisive radical Islamists. "Opposition parties are just dynasties," he said of the Bhutto family, which owns numerous houses abroad. "She corrupted the nation. At least when the army corrupts, they spend it locally."Ripples of ResentmentIn both newsrooms, the awkward friendship causes uneasiness among the small staffs.At 9 at night, without a knock or a buzz, Mr. Khalil climbed the steps to The Pakistan Post and walked into the cloud of smoke that is Mr. Farooqi's unventilated office.Mohammad Farrukh, The Post's 36-year-old editor, looked up in disgust. "No one should come to our office," Mr. Farrukh said as he stood out of earshot in the hallway. "We're not a grocery store. We're not a gas station."In the basement next door, where Mr. Khalil's wife, Anjum Khalil, and his 30-year-old son, Atif, serve as his overnight staff, there is similar discontent about the relationship between the men."If I had a fight like that, I probably wouldn't talk to that person," said Atif Khalil, a bookish individual who reads Noam Chomsky between fielding calls from his layout liaison in Pakistan. "But my dad still sends me up there to help him with computer problems."Still, no manner of repairs can aid the ailing Urdu-language press. Immigration from Pakistan ceased after the attacks of 9/11, as thousands of illegal immigrants from Pakistan left the United States for Canada and Dubai. Compounding the problem, most members of the younger generation cannot read or write in Urdu.And as these two men ponder an uncertain future, they are haunted by one dispiriting thought: despite 16 years of weekly reports, little if anything has changed in their homeland."I'm born in chaos, and I'm now working in chaos, and I have a feeling that when I die, Pakistan will be in the same position," Mr. Farooqi said. "Since my childhood, I haven't heard any good news about my country."Berkeley, Calif.WE'RE sliding into recession, or worse, and Washington is turning to the normal remedies for economic downturns. But the normal remedies are not likely to work this time, because this isn't a normal downturn.The problem lies deeper. It is the culmination of three decades during which American consumers have spent beyond their means. That era is now coming to an end. Consumers have run out of ways to keep the spending binge going.The only lasting remedy, other than for Americans to accept a lower standard of living and for businesses to adjust to a smaller economy, is to give  middle- and lower-income Americans more buying power — and not just temporarily.Much of the current debate is irrelevant. Even with more tax breaks for business like  accelerated depreciation, companies won't invest in more factories or equipment when demand is dropping for products and services across the board, as it is now. And temporary fixes like a stimulus package that would give households a one-time cash infusion won't get consumers back to the malls, because consumers know the assistance is temporary. The problems most consumers face are permanent, so they  are likely to pocket the extra money instead of spending it.Another Fed rate cut might unfreeze credit markets and give consumers access to somewhat cheaper loans, but there's no going back to the easy money of a few years ago. Lenders and borrowers have been badly burned, and the values of houses and other assets are dropping faster than interest rates can be lowered.The underlying problem has been building for decades. America's median hourly wage is barely higher than it was 35 years ago, adjusted for inflation.  The income of a  man in his 30s is now 12 percent below that of a man his age three decades ago. Most of what's been earned in America since then has gone to the richest 5 percent.Yet the rich devote a smaller percentage of their earnings to buying things than the rest of us because, after all, they're rich. They already have most of what they want. Instead of buying, and thus stimulating the American economy, the rich are more likely to invest their earnings wherever around the world they can get the highest return.The problem has been masked for years as middle- and lower-income Americans found ways to live beyond their paychecks. But now they have run out of ways.The first way was to send more women into paid work. Most women streamed into the work force in the 1970s less because new professional opportunities opened up to them than because they had to prop up family incomes. The percentage of American working mothers with school-age children has almost doubled since 1970 —  to more than 70 percent. But there's a limit to how many mothers can maintain paying jobs.So Americans turned to a second way of spending beyond their hourly wages. They worked more hours. The typical American now works more each year than he or she did three decades ago.  Americans became veritable workaholics, putting in 350 more hours a year than the average European, more even than the notoriously industrious Japanese.But there's also a limit to how many hours Americans can put into work, so Americans turned to a third way of spending beyond their wages. They began to borrow. With housing prices rising briskly through the 1990s and even faster from  2002 to  2006, they turned their homes into piggy banks by refinancing home mortgages and taking out home-equity loans. But this third strategy also had a built-in limit. With the bursting of the housing bubble, the piggy banks are closing.The binge seems to be over. We're finally reaping the whirlwind of widening inequality and ever more concentrated wealth.The only way to keep the economy going over the long run is to increase  the wages of the bottom two-thirds of Americans. The answer is not to protect jobs through trade protection. That would only drive up the prices of everything purchased from abroad. Most routine jobs are being automated anyway.A larger earned-income tax credit, financed by a higher marginal income tax on top earners, is required. The tax credit functions like a reverse income tax. Enlarging it would mean giving workers at the bottom a bigger wage supplement, as well as phasing it out at a higher wage. The current supplement for a worker with two children who earns up to $16,000 a year is about $5,000.  That amount declines as earnings increase and is eliminated  at about $38,000. It should be increased to, say, $8,000 at the low end and phased out at an income of $46,000.We also need stronger unions, especially in the local service sector that's sheltered from global competition. Employees should be able to form a union without the current protracted certification process that gives employers too much opportunity to intimidate or coerce them. Workers should be able to decide whether to form a union with a simple majority vote.And employers who fire workers for trying to organize should have to pay substantial fines. Right now, the typical penalty is back pay for the worker, plus interest — a slap on the wrist.Over the longer term, inequality can be reversed only through better schools for children in lower- and moderate-income communities. This will require, at the least, good preschools, fewer students per classroom and better pay for teachers in such schools, in order to attract the teaching talent these students need.These measures are necessary to give Americans enough buying power to keep the American economy going. They are also needed to overcome widening inequality, and thereby keep America in one piece. A LITTLE more than 40 years ago, the journalist Richard H. Rovere set off in search of that indistinct tangle of power and influence known as the American Establishment. After months of investigation, Mr. Rovere, in an essay published in 1961, unmasked the establishment's members — the directors of the Council on Foreign Relations, the chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank, the head of the Ford Foundation, and so on — and offered a working definition: "A more or less closed and self-sustaining institution that holds a preponderance of power in our more or less open society."Mr. Rovere's findings proved so persuasive that many readers didn't realize his essay was an extended joke, meant to satirize popular paranoia about the power elite. Decades later, pundits continued to take his essay, "The American Establishment," at face value, citing it as the definitive work on the subject. Even today few find the concept comical, least of all in the political realm, where the notion of a mighty, semisecretive establishment — business-suited men (and a few women) cloistered in the proverbial smoke-filled room — still obtains. It is widely taken for granted that each major party is more or less run by a powerful establishment, which anoints presidential candidates, supplies them with campaign money and gets them elected.But this season's primaries have made the idea of a political establishment, whether Republican or Democratic, hard to take seriously.Among Democrats, the establishment candidate would appear to be Hillary Rodham Clinton, the New York senator and former first lady, whose husband remains the Democratic Party's most influential figure seven years after he left office. Mrs. Clinton raised tens of millions of dollars; her allies, friends and former staff members pepper the ranks of Democratic-leaning labor unions, activist groups and Washington research institutes. Yet she is now locked in a struggle for political survival with Barack Obama, who not long ago was an obscure state senator from Illinois.Now Mrs. Clinton herself wants to play underdog. Her chief campaign strategist, Mark Penn, contended last week that it was Mr. Obama, not Mrs. Clinton, who was running an "increasingly establishment-oriented campaign." If there is a Democratic establishment, in other words, the establishment Democratic candidate wants no part of it."Clinton should be the establishment candidate this time, but it's not working that way," said Alan Brinkley, a historian at Columbia University. "There's just no establishment to support her."Or if there is an establishment, it may not count for much. Last month, to considerable fanfare, Mr. Obama won the backing of leading members of the Kennedy clan, by some lights the gold standard of the pre-Clinton Democratic establishment — and certainly the first family of Massachusetts politics. Mr. Obama also captured the support of the state's junior senator, John Kerry, and governor, Deval Patrick. Yet he still lost the Massachusetts primary on Tuesday by a healthy margin.Establishment influence is even less apparent on the Republican side, a stark contrast to 2000, when party chieftains anointed George W. Bush as the Republican nominee, locking down important endorsements and donors before a single primary was held. The current front-runner and presumptive nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona, is viewed as an apostate by influential figures on the right, like the talk radio host Rush Limbaugh and the evangelical leader James C. Dobson. Both have fiercely denounced Mr. McCain and threatened to withhold their support if he is the nominee.Mr. McCain's critics are frustrated not only because they believe he has defied conservative doctrine on issues like taxes and campaign finance reform, but also because they view him as someone who has cozied up to the other side. "There's always been a paradox with him," said Ryan Sager, a conservative columnist and author of "The Elephant in the Room: Evangelicals, Libertarians and the Battle to Control the Republican Party." "On paper, this guy should be a solid conservative, but he's engendered so much dislike among conservatives for having endeared himself to the liberal establishment."That word again. For the right, the establishment has even more complex associations than for the left, because the founders of modern conservatism were the first to speak routinely of a "liberal establishment" a like-minded elite that  was said to exert undue influence over Congress, academia, the news media and more. (In his essay, Mr. Rovere noted tartly that conservatives of his time, including the editors of National Review, evidently believed the establishment to include "just about everyone in the country except themselves.") Many of the conservative groups and leaders who oppose Mr. McCain are the same ones who decades ago felt that their own party's establishment was dominated by a few secret "kingmakers" who steered presidential elections toward moderates like Dwight D. Eisenhower, as Phyllis Schlafly, the founder of the Eagle Forum, wrote in her influential book "A Choice Not an Echo."Insurgents like Mrs. Schlafly emerged as a potent force in the 1964 primary, gaining the nomination for Barry M. Goldwater, and went on to form the conservative establishment that dominated the Republican Party for the next 40 years. They still see themselves as indispensable kingmakers without whom no Republican can win the nomination, let alone the White House. As a result, Mr. McCain has emerged as a genuine threat. Should he win the nomination over their opposition after all, the kingmakers would be dethroned."What goes around comes around," said Morris P. Fiorina, a senior fellow at the conservative Hoover Institution and a professor of political science at Stanford University. "It's a self-appointed establishment to a great extent, and I think all along they overestimated their own importance."The closer you look for signs of either party's establishment at work, it seems, the more the very idea seems to crumble and dissolve. On both sides of the political divide, the people and institutions once considered integral to the establishment have become too weak or fractious to deserve the term.On the left, for example, labor unions were once overwhelmingly powerful in the Democratic Party. Today, they remain a major force in party affairs, but not a very monolithic one. In 2005, several significant unions split from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. after disagreements over organizing strategy and formed a new group, the Change to Win Coalition.Perhaps the only vestige of establishment strength in the Democratic primaries are the so-called superdelegates — sitting governors, senators, state chairmen and the like, who make up about a fifth of the delegates and can back whomever they like. They were created after the divisive 1980 primaries, with the idea that in  close contests,    party leaders could quickly coalesce behind one candidate, heading off a nasty nomination fight.So far, though, the signs of coalescence are few. Mrs. Clinton commands about twice as many superdelegates as Mr. Obama, according to an analysis by The New York Times. But it appears that more of these delegates remain uncommitted than have pledged to both candidates combined.Another bastion of the old establishments — the formal party machines — aren't what they used to be either. In the 1970s, the Democratic National Committee was led by Robert M. Strauss, a Washington lawyer-fixer so synonymous with the Democratic establishment that his nickname was Mr. Democrat. Today, the chairman's post is held by Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor who ran an outsider presidential campaign in 2004 that horrified many Beltway Democrats. As for Mr. Dean's Republican counterpart, well — quick, name the chairman of the Republican National Committee. (It's Robert M. Duncan.)As the machines have broken down, so has party discipline. Last year, several states defied the Republican and Democratic committees and scheduled their primaries earlier than allowed to gain more influence in the nominating process. As punishment, Democratic delegates from Michigan and Florida are technically banned from the convention later this year; on the Republican side, those states and three others will each be stripped of half their delegates.And where are the seasoned senior statesmen with the stature and independence to act as honest brokers between party factions? "You don't have the obvious party elders these days," said Walter Isaacson, president of the Aspen Institute and co-author, with Evan Thomas, of "The Wise Men," a study of the post-World War II foreign policy establishment. Bill Clinton abandoned his senior-statesman post to go on the attack against Mr. Obama. Even in the Republican Party, where tradition and hierarchy have always played a greater role in party affairs, there is less deference to elders. The day before 24 states held primaries or caucuses last week, Bob Dole — a pillar of the old pre-Reagan Republican establishment — defended Mr. McCain in a letter to Mr. Limbaugh, the lead tribune of the 1990s-vintage establishment.The next day, Mr. Limbaugh claimed that Mr. Dole had been manipulated by Mr. McCain. Mr. McCain's rival, Mitt Romney, meanwhile, sniped that the McCain campaign was like Mr. Dole's losing bid in 1996 — "the guy who's next in line, the inevitable choice," Mr. Romney said. (Mr. Romney, in fact, was backed by many leading conservatives in Washington. But after struggling on Tuesday, he dropped out of the race on Thursday.)Some of the shift away from party establishments seems rooted in the political moment. This year will have the first presidential election in half a century in which neither a sitting president nor a sitting vice president is vying for major-party nomination, lending the contests a rare fluidity. Moreover, Mr. Bush's sheer unpopularity precludes him from dominating his party, as presidents traditionally do. For the same reason, no Republicans dare run openly as Mr. Bush's heir.Republican voters, for their part, are still reeling from the assorted fund-raising and ethics scandals that two years ago destroyed the party's Congressional machine, once headed by  Tom DeLay of Texas. The loss of Congress in the 2006 elections eliminated the centralized funnel of campaign money and influence he  had wielded to maintain party discipline. It also sapped the party's once-vast influence over the K Street lobbying firms where the party used to park much of its political talent and raised much of its campaign money.Meanwhile, conservative Christians, once the movement's firmest base, have become politically more diverse. Pastors like Rick Warren and Bill Hybels are urging the faithful to look beyond abortion and gay marriage to issues like global warming and poverty. And despite Mr. Dobson's threats of a boycott, nearly a third of evangelical Republicans voted for Mr. McCain on Tuesday.On the left, grass-roots Democrats have made aggressive use of online organizing and fund-raising techniques to decentralize their own party and break the monopoly the wealthy once had on political cash. Measured by membership and fund-raising, for example, MoveOn.org is now one of the largest and most active constituency groups within the party. But this month,  members voted overwhelmingly to endorse Mr. Obama — though he has not been popular among many in the  "netroots,"  owing to his disdain for openly partisan appeals. And judging from fund-raising figures after last Tuesday, it appears that Mrs. Clinton has in a sense been hurt by her reliance on an old-fashioned network of deep-pocketed donors, many of whom have already reached the legal maximum. Mr. Obama, by contrast, has raised smaller amounts from a larger number of contributors, so he can go back to many of them for money now, when he needs it most."The shift in the sources of funding is profound and probably lasting," Mr. Brinkley said. "That really limits the influence of a lot of people who used to play a big role in all of this."It may be too early to say whether the two establishments, left and right, are in decline or only in retreat. Either way, most citizens seem content to do without them."The American public doesn't particularly like establishments, especially when the country appears to be off track," said Robert B. Reich, secretary of labor in the Clinton administration and now a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley. "I think we may be witnessing something of a revolt against the establishment in both parties."TAX season is never pleasant, but this one could have been much worse for many taxpayers. An estimated 20 million Americans were spared additional tax burdens by the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2007, known less formally as "the A.M.T. patch," signed by President Bush on Dec. 26. The change means that they will escape the alternative minimum tax, though it is still expected to snare more than 4 million other taxpayers.The patch is effective only for the 2007 tax year, however. A major overhaul of America's complex tax system isn't likely at least until a new Congress and a new president have been elected.To help taxpayers understand what documents they need and some strategies they can use regardless of whether they prepare their own returns or go to a professional, Jan M. Rosen of The New York Times, used the TurboTax program, published by Intuit, in consultation with Bob Meighan, vice president of TurboTax, to prepare this sample return for a hypothetical New York suburban couple.The software requires little knowledge of either computers or tax law, though it takes some patience to gather all your documents and refer to them to answer the program's questions. The program uses your answers to fill out the forms and to calculate everything.The couple's income was slightly higher in 2007 than it was in 2006, and their overall financial situation was little changed, but thanks to the new law, they will not have an A.M.T. liability this year, as they did in 2006. The reason is that the A.M.T. exemption for a couple filing jointly was raised to $66,250 from $62,550 for 2006. That was enough to spare them.Filling Out the 1040Form 1040 is a summary of income, adjustments to income, deductions and credits. It shows most of those amounts as bottom-line figures copied from a return's other forms and schedules. Taxable income and the tax due on it, along with any refund or payment due, are calculated on Page 2.The Internal Revenue Service is encouraging taxpayers to file electronically, but whether people do that or mail in paper forms, the preparation is the same.The most time-consuming part of the process may be gathering all the papers related to your income and deductions. Don't guess at a number for a W-2 or 1099 that has gone missing. Employers, banks, brokers and others who made payments to you must report the amounts on W-2 and 1099 forms and send them to the I.R.S., as well as to you. I.R.S. computers compare what the payers report with what taxpayers report on their returns. TurboTax may be able to help here: it can download W-2 and 1099 tax information from some employers and financial institutions, automating data entry.Like most married couples, the hypothetical couple in this example -- Samuel P. and Felicity Q. Taxpayer -- are filing jointly (Line 2). They claim four exemptions (Line 6) -- two for themselves and one each for their son, Cyril, 18, and daughter, Heidi, 14.They have several sources of income. Because both are employed, Samuel full time and Felicity part time, the first source is salaries. The $130,000 shown on Line 7 is the total of the amounts in Box 1 of their W-2's. It does not include $7,000 that they put into tax-deferred 401(k) retirement plans at work. Those contributions show up only on the couple's W-2 forms, not on their tax return.Taxable interest income of $488 is reported on Line 8a and tax-exempt interest of $500 on Line 8b. Ordinary dividends of $1,601 on Line 9a include qualified dividends of $1,451 (Line 9b). Qualified dividends, which include most dividends from domestic stocks, are taxed like long-term capital gains at 15 percent (or at 5 percent for people in the 10 percent and 15 percent income tax brackets). The year-end tax statements on Form 1099-DIV issued by financial institutions report both numbers, ordinary and qualified dividends. People who have more than $1,500 of either interest or dividends must complete Schedule B.Felicity, a graphic designer, also has a home-based business, from which she received income of $31,977, after expenses. That is calculated on Schedule C and listed on Line 12. Capital gains of $1,825 (Line 13) come from Schedule D. People who have income from I.R.A.'s, pensions, farms, Social Security payments, unemployment compensation and other sources -- this couple did not -- must report it on Lines 15 to 21.Although the Taxpayers' total income is $165,891 (Line 22),their adjusted gross income is only $146,688 (Line 37), thanks to four adjustments, often known as above-the-line deductions. The first, on Line 27, is $2,259, which is one-half of Felicity's self-employment tax from Schedule SE for her freelance business. The $5,944 on Line 28 is her contribution to a Keogh retirement plan for self-employed people. TurboTax calculated that amount as the legal maximum for her income. On Line 31a is $9,000 in alimony that Samuel paid to his first wife, whose Social Security number must be shown. Payers can deduct alimony; recipients must report it as income on Line 11.The fourth adjustment, $2,000 on Line 34 from Form 8917, is a tuition deduction for Cyril, a college student. The family's income is too high for them to claim a Hope or Lifetime Learning credit for him. Credits reduce taxes dollar for dollar, while deductions reduce taxes only at taxpayers' marginal rate; thus credits are generally preferable for those who qualify.After itemized deductions of $28,499 (Line 40, from Schedule A) and four personal exemptions worth $13,600 (Line 42), the couple's taxable income is $104,589 (Line 43). The regular tax on that is $18,667 (Line 44).An enormous complication in the tax system is that taxpayers are required to do the calculations for a regular return, then calculate the alternative tax (Line 45) using a different set of tax rules, and pay whichever is higher. Tax software generally performs the dual calculations. The A.M.T. denies personal exemptions and certain other tax breaks -- notably the deduction for state and local taxes. As a result, people in high-tax states like New York and California are most at risk of being snared.Credits are listed on the lines that follow. The Taxpayers claim $16 (Line 51) for foreign taxes reported by a mutual fund in which they own shares. The couple cannot claim any of a potential $1,000 child tax credit (Line 52) for Heidi, who is 14, because the credit is limited or eliminated for couples whose adjusted gross income exceeds $110,000.Felicity's self-employment tax of $4,518 (Line 58, from Schedule SE) brings their total tax to $23,169 (Line 63). They had withholding from salaries of $21,000 (Line 64) and made estimated tax payments of $2,100 (Line 65), so they owe $69 (Line 76). That shows good planning. They have paid enough to avoid an underpayment penalty, but not enough to get a refund. People who get refunds have essentially given the Treasury an interest-free loan.Taxpayers who mail in paper returns are required to sign and date them.Schedule A: Itemized DeductionsMedical expenses (Line 1) can be deducted only to the extent that unreimbursed outlays exceed 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income. Like most Americans, the Taxpayers do not qualify.The couple report state and local income taxes of $7,500 (Line 5) and real estate taxes of $13,456 (Line 6). The Taxpayers deduct home mortgage interest of $5,475 (Line 10). Because Felicity maintains a home office for her freelance business, the mortgage interest and real estate taxes applicable to that part of the house are reported on Form 8829 and deducted against her business income.They also deduct gifts to charity of $2,068 (Line 19). Those gifts include $218 (Line 17) for the thrift-shop value of used clothing and toys that were in good condition and donated to a church rummage sale. Filers who are audited must be able to show written evidence, like bank records or proper receipts for cash donations, even small ones. Taxpayers should keep those records with their own tax files.Like most filers, the couple could not take a miscellaneous itemized deduction (Line 27). This deduction covers the cost of items like union dues, professional publications, unreimbursed employee business expenses, and equipment used only for work and tax preparation, but it is allowed only for expenses that exceed 2 percent of adjusted gross income ($2,934 on Line 26).Their itemized deductions total $28,499 (Line 29).Schedule C: Profit or Loss From BusinessFelicity Taxpayer, who has self-employment income from her unincorporated freelance business as a graphic designer, must file Schedule C for a sole proprietorship.She reported gross receipts of $42,156 (Line 7) and expenses of $7,409 (Line 28). Among the expenses, detailed in Part II, were $500 for advertising (Line 8), $563 for business use of her personal car (Line 9) and $2,478 for printing equipment (Line 13). Rather than depreciate the equipment over several years, she chose to deduct the entire cost under Section 179, an option known as expensing. Section 179 may be used for purchases of up to $125,000 to the extent that there is offsetting income. Felicity also deducted $2,770 for business use of her home (Line 30, from Form 8829).In case of an I.R.S. audit -- returns that include Schedule C have above-average audit rates -- business owners must substantiate their deductions. That means they need to keep meticulous records, file all receipts, keep a log of car mileage and, in the case of entertainment expenses, write notes about who was entertained, where and the business purpose.After expenses, Felicity reported a net profit of $31,977 (Line 31).Schedule D: Capital Gains And LossesAsset sales last year that resulted in a capital gain or loss are reported on Schedule D. This couple's return includes only mutual fund distributions and sales of stocks, but Schedule D can also be used to report sales of real estate, artwork and other assets, and even of municipal bonds. (Only the interest on these bonds, not any profit on sales, is tax-exempt.) Active traders must file Schedule D-1, a continuation sheet for Schedule D, to report all their sales.The cost in Column (e) includes brokerage fees and charges, and the sale price in Column (d) is calculated after deducting such fees. Assets held for a year or less are considered short term, and their sales are reported in Part I; such gains are taxed like ordinary income. Long-term gains and losses -- those on assets held more than a year -- are listed in Part II. Long-term gains on stocks and stock-based mutual funds are taxed at 15 percent, or, for lower-income taxpayers, at 5 percent. The total gain or loss for each asset sold is listed in Column (f).The Taxpayers sold 1,000 shares of Ford Motor in December, recognizing a $2,900 loss (Line 7) that partially offset nets gains of $4,725 (Line 15) on four other stocks. The net result (Line 16 at the top of Page 2) is a capital gain of $1,825 that is also reported on Line 13 of Form 1040.Form 8917: Tuition and Fees DeductionThe tax code provides a number of tax breaks to help parents and students pay education costs, but many are subject to income limits. The Hope credit, for example, which provides a tax credit of up to $1,650 a student for the first and second year of post-secondary education, and the Lifetime Learning credit, which provides a maximum of $2,000 a household, phase out for joint filers with modified adjusted gross income between $94,000 and $114,000.Thus, the Taxpayers could not claim those credits, but they are entitled to a tuition deduction of $2,000 (Line 6). That is far less than Cyril's college costs of $21,453, but is the maximum allowed for filers whose adjusted gross income is between $130,000 and $160,000.Schedule SE Self-Employment TaxSelf-employment taxes are a significant cost of being your own boss. At 15.3 percent, they represent both the employer's and employee's shares of Social Security and Medicare taxes. They are calculated on Schedule SE, based on the net profit of the business.For Felicity, the profit as reported on Schedule C is $31,977 (Line 2). The tax on that amount is $4,518 (Line 5).Because businesses can deduct the Social Security and Medicare taxes they pay for employees, self-employed people can deduct half of their self-employment tax (Line 6 and Form 1040, Line 27).Employed people who earned $97,500 or more in 2007 and thus had the maximum amount of Social Security tax withheld do not have to pay Social Security taxes for a sideline business or freelance income. But they still owe Medicare tax of 2.9 percent.Form 8829: Expenses for Business Use Of Your HomeAlthough the home-office deduction has sometimes been considered an audit flag -- perhaps because some people not entitled to the deduction have taken it -- tax professionals say people who qualify should be sure to claim it. The claimed portion of the house must be used regularly and exclusively for business, and it must be essential to the conduct of the business. If the family den doubles as the home office, it does not qualify.Felicity Taxpayer uses a 12- by 15-foot room in her 2,500-square-foot home (Line 2) for her freelance design work. That comes to 7.2 percent of the home's space. Home expenses, including mortgage interest, real estate taxes, insurance, repairs and maintenance and utilities, are listed on Part II of the form and multiplied by 7.2 percent (Lines 13 and 23). Those results, $1,469 and $563, as well as depreciation of $738 (Line 41 and on Form 4562, not shown) result in a home office deduction of $2,770 (Line 35). If she had had expenses pertaining directly to the office -- say, for painting the room or modifying it for business use -- they could have been listed (on Lines 9 through 21, Column (a)) and deducted.Schedule B: Interest and Ordinary DividendsThe total numbers for both interest and dividends -- complete with a break-out of how much of the ordinary dividends are qualified to be taxed at the lower capital-gains rate -- are reported on the first page of Form 1040. Nevertheless, people who have more than $1,500 of either interest or dividends are required to file Schedule B, listing each payer.In some cases, reporting interest or dividends is not as simple as it looks. But taxpayers who go through their 1099 forms one by one should have no trouble answering the questions posed by the software.Form 6251: Alternative Minimum Tax -- IndividualsThe alternative minimum tax is actually a separate, parallel tax system, traditionally with far fewer tax breaks than the regular system, but also with lower rates. It goes back to a minimum tax law enacted in 1969, and was intended to corral very rich taxpayers who used sophisticated legal strategies to avoid taxes under the regular system.Because the tax cuts in recent years have brought regular rates very near to the A.M.T. rates, increasing numbers of ordinary taxpayers are finding themselves subject to the A.M.T. The one-year patch in December that spared 20 million for 2007 followed similar patches for other recent years.Among the trip wires that can snag taxpayers in the A.M.T. today are deductions for state and local income taxes and real estate taxes, or dependent exemptions claimed by big families. Of course, the A.M.T. is also likely to affect people who engage in sophisticated tax planning for the income and expenses involved in specialized business activities -- like the exercise of incentive stock options, intangible drilling costs, a net operating loss, circulation costs, mining costs and research and experimental costs.Warren E. Buffett volunteered on Tuesday to rescue Wall Street from its latest looming crisis.But Mr. Buffett, the billionaire investor known as the Oracle of Omaha, made clear that his offer would not come cheap. And even then, jittery investors were unsure that his plan would work.Capitalizing on the turmoil in the financial markets, Mr. Buffett offered to shoulder some of the financial burdens of three insurance companies whose plunging fortunes have become a threat to the financial system.The companies —  MBIA, the Ambac Financial Group and the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company  —  guarantee interest and principal payments on hundreds of billions of dollars of bonds sold by states and municipalities, as well as complex mortgage investments. Investors fear that the deepening  problems of the bond insurers could unleash a chain reaction of losses across financial industries.Mr. Buffett said he would stand behind, or reinsure, policies that the three companies had written on $800 billion of municipal bonds, a move analysts called a shrewd attempt to take advantage of the companies' problems.  His holding company, Berkshire Hathaway, is willing to commit $5 billion to the task but wants the insurers to pay it a steep premium. Berkshire will refuse to take any risks associated with mortgage-related securities, the riskiest debt that the companies insure. Mr. Buffett made his offer public on CNBC, the financial news network.The insurers were considered unlikely to agree to Mr. Buffett's stringent terms. Ambac, in a statement, said the offer would not benefit the company.The offer initially heartened investors, who have grown increasingly alarmed by the drumbeat of grim news from the bond guarantors.  Financial shares led the stock market higher for much of the day before the rally faded in the afternoon.But the insurers' share prices fell as traders considered the implications of Mr. Buffett's statements on the companies' business. The offer would do little to alleviate the problems the insurers are facing on securities backed by mortgages, consumer loans and other assets. In fact, reinsuring municipal bonds with Mr. Buffett could make the companies more vulnerable because they would be left with only the riskiest insurance contracts."Essentially, if any of the companies were to take him up on this offer, it would be almost them waving a white flag saying that they are done," said Rob Haines, an analyst at the research firm CreditSights. "It does not make sense to give up what is the good part of your business."In trading Tuesday, MBIA's stock closed down 15.3 percent, at $11.50. Shares of Ambac were down 15.1 percent, closing at $8.90. F.G.I.C. is privately held.Mr. Buffett's offer, along with news that mortgage companies would give delinquent borrowers more time to restructure their loans, helped buoy stocks most of the day, but prices fell back toward the end of  trading. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 0.73 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average was up 133.40 points, or 1.09 percent. The technology-weighted Nasdaq composite index was essentially flat.Shares of financial companies, which might benefit from a strong company like Berkshire Hathaway's backing municipal bonds, rose 1.4 percent.In a letter dated Feb. 6 to Lazard, the investment bank that is advising MBIA, Ajit B. Jain, president of reinsurance for Berkshire Hathaway, proposed that MBIA pay Mr. Buffett's company 150 percent of the premium it earns for insuring its municipal bond portfolio. Typically, insurers cede a share of their premiums, not more than they earn."I would submit that our proposal at the pricing levels we require is actually a cheap way for MBIA to raise capital as compared to other alternatives and is therefore a great benefit to MBIA's owners and their municipal bond policy holders," Mr. Jain wrote. He noted that in recent months, Berkshire had been able to set premiums at twice as much as MBIA used to charge, or more. Mr. Jain estimated that the reinsurance premiums paid by MBIA and Ambac would total about $9 billion.Neither he nor Mr. Buffett returned telephone calls Tuesday.Berkshire Hathaway's offer was prompted by a call from the New York State  insurance superintendent, Eric R. Dinallo, who late last year asked the company to enter the bond insurance business directly and quickly gave it approval to do business in the state. The company has since had similarly warm receptions in other states.In the last couple of months, investors and regulators have focused on the bond guarantors. For state regulators, the main concern has been protecting the $2.6 trillion municipal bond market, about half of which is insured. For some states, cities and other public entities,  the cost of borrowing is up  noticeably recently because investors are concerned that the guarantors' backing will turn out worthless.Mr. Dinallo, who regulates MBIA and F.G.I.C., has asked large banks like Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and UBS, many of which hold insurance policies from the guarantors, to devise a plan to shore up the insurers. The officials are discussing investing in the insurers or providing them with lines of credit to cover future losses and restore confidence in them. (Ambac is regulated by Wisconsin regulators.)While the banks and the guarantors continue to meet daily with each other and with Joseph R. Perella, an investment banker who is advising Mr. Dinallo, the Berkshire Hathaway reinsurance plan is seen as a backup solution if those talks are unsuccessful, said a person familiar with the discussions but who was not authorized to speak about them.One analyst said that Mr. Dinallo could be using the Berkshire offer to put pressure on the banks to come up with a plan that addresses both the municipal debt obligations and the mortgage-related securities insured by the bond guarantors."It may be an effort to get the banks to come to the table and probably do it on better terms than" what Mr. Buffett is offering, said Douglas A. Dachille, chief executive of First Principles Capital Management, a bond firm based in New York.The guarantors — who maintain that while they have made mistakes, they remain in good financial shape — are unlikely to find the reinsurance plan appealing. They would much prefer reinsuring the part of their business that is at greater risk for future losses, and they would like to pay a smaller premium than what Berkshire has suggested.On Tuesday, all three companies declined to comment.In an interview in December, Mr. Buffett said he did not want to enter the business of insuring mortgage-related bonds because those securities were too complex and risky — a view he reiterated Tuesday on CNBC."The insurance in the market is not doing bondholders any good and is in some cases penalizing bond investors," Mr. Buffett said. "Our proposal puts the municipals at the front of the line."When Yahoo sends its letter rejecting Microsoft's $44.6 billion on Monday, it will end up in the inbox of a largely unknown executive on Microsoft's sprawling campus, Christopher P. Liddell.Mr. Liddell, a  former banker from New Zealand, is the behind-the-scenes architect of Microsoft's hostile takeover, the company's first  unsolicited bid and perhaps the most audacious attempt by a technology company to wrestle control of a competitor.With Yahoo's board rejecting Microsoft's advances, it will fall to Mr. Liddell, an outsider to the software industry who joined Microsoft as its chief financial officer just two years ago, to plot the company's next steps in this bitter battle — and in the process, reshape Microsoft's not-invented-here culture toward making aggressive acquisitions."You have to be disciplined and ruthless," Mr. Liddell said by telephone last week, before Yahoo's board decided to rebuff the offer. "We should see acquisitions as a way of growth. We should not be embarrassed at all."Microsoft has made acquisitions over the years, but mainly smaller ones to jumpstart a fledgling business or pick up a needed technology. Its media player, voice recognition, health search and business software, among others, are technologies Microsoft bought along with the companies that created them.However, when it has come to making big deals, it has balked until recently. In late 2003, Microsoft talked to the big German business software maker SAP about buying it. The deal, had it been pursued, would have cost Microsoft more than $50 billion.The talks, made public in a court case in 2004, were abandoned, Microsoft said, because of the "complexity of the potential transaction," especially the management headaches of trying to put the two big software companies together.Mr. Liddell, who calls himself Microsoft's "gatekeeper of funding," spent the weekend devising ways to raise the stakes in the fight for Yahoo now that the company's original proposal has been rejected, holding a series of marathon conference calls with his cadre of Wall Street advisers.More an accountant than a technologist, Mr. Liddell, who joined Microsoft after serving as chief financial officer at International Paper, the giant forest products company, clearly has no compunction about ruffling any digital feathers. Among his alternatives is a series of bare-knuckle Wall Street tactics: First, Microsoft is planning to crisscross the nation to meet with Yahoo's largest shareholders in an election-style campaign, hoping they can put pressure on Yahoo's board, people briefed on the company's plans said.Microsoft may have an easier time than it could have had two weeks ago: since then, millions of Yahoo's shares have  traded hands to short-term-oriented hedge funds that typically favor a quick sale, as opposed to value investors who hold shares for the long term.Microsoft could also decide to make an offer directly to shareholders, called a tender offer, which would put more pressure on Yahoo's board to negotiate. At the same time, Microsoft could also set a deadline for its bid,  known as an "exploding offer."And if Microsoft decides to make this a nasty battle, it could start a proxy contest to oust Yahoo's board at its next election; it would have until March 13 to nominate a new slate of directors.Microsoft's advisers in the takeover attempt are Morgan Stanley and the Blackstone Group. Its lawyers are Simpson Thacher & Bartlett and Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft.They are facing  Yahoo's team of bankers at Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers and Moelis & Company, and its lawyers at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.Microsoft also hired outside public relations advisers, Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher and Waggener Edstrom Worldwide. Yahoo has Abernathy-McGregor and Robinson, Lehrer, Montgomery.Microsoft may simply raise its offer to clinch a deal. Analysts have suggested the company could afford to pay as much as $35 a share for Yahoo, up from its current offer of $31.But Mr. Liddell, speaking generally about negotiations, seemed to suggest he was willing to play hardball. "You have to be willing to walk away," said Mr. Liddell, who plays rugby regularly and has completed several triathlons.For Mr. Liddell,  who sends e-mail messages to colleagues at all hours and is a PowerPoint whiz, the prospect of joining Microsoft as an outsider and trying to transform it into a financially oriented acquisition machine was daunting. "I knew there had been a history of people coming in here and it not working," he said.Mr. Liddell was one of several high-profile outside hires at Microsoft in recent years including Ray Ozzie, the creator of  Lotus Notes, as the company's chief software architect; and B. Kevin Turner, a former Wal-Mart executive, as chief operating officer.Mr. Liddell, who has a master's degree in philosophy from Oxford, found that with Bill Gates and the president, Steven A. Ballmer, "If you do a good job, you fit in. They don't suffer people very well who don't come prepared."He has a background as an investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston in Auckland. Since he joined the company, Microsoft has made 50 acquisitions.He has pushed the company to use  its cash  — it has spent $54 billion on stock buybacks and dividends since his arrival.   And it has even taken on, dare it be said aloud at Microsoft, debt for the first time in the company's history. If the company's bid for Yahoo is successful, Microsoft will be doing both.AT the Oko frozen yogurt shop in Park Slope, Brooklyn, the counter and walls are made from sunflower seeds and its awnings have solar panels.Maury Rubin said that when he opens his third Birdbath organic bakery this spring, in Battery Park City, the roof will be planted with herbs to help air quality and insulate the store. Like the other Birdbaths in lower Manhattan, its furnishings will be made from recycled materials and wheat board.Gusto Grilled Organics in Greenwich Village has been certified as organic under federal regulations by the Northeast Organic Farming Association of New York and its construction complies with standards set by the U.S. Green Building Council, a national environmental building organization.Places like these, with a countercultural vibe, are what the phrase "green restaurant" might bring to mind.But at the 13 New York and Chicago restaurants of Stephen Hanson's B. R. Guest Restaurants, where you're more likely to find patrons knocking back margaritas than sipping herbal tea, there's a sanitation expert to help with recycling, as well as paper takeout containers, and organic eggs and other ingredients (as long as they're not too expensive or hard to get).At Del Posto, near the meatpacking district in Manhattan, where there are little stools for purses, biodiesel trucks fueled by its used cooking oil fetch ingredients from an upstate farm and return with the restaurant's compost."There are many ways to be green," said Joseph Bastianich, an owner.And many places that are trying. Lately, when restaurateurs create a menu or settle on a design, they're considering the environment along with the cuisine. Some do it to save money and others to tap into a popular trend, but many do it because they believe in it. Jason Hennings said the ingredients at Black Iron Burger, which he is to open soon in the East Village, will come from New York State, avoiding fuel-burning, cross-country deliveries. "I want this to be an ethical burger," he said.The seal of approval for many environmentally concerned dining places around the country comes from the nonprofit Green Restaurant Association, founded by Michael Oshman in 1990, when, he said, there was no green business movement.Now, his organization, based in Boston, has more than 350 members, which for an annual fee of $500 to $4,000, depending on their size, get a "Green Restaurant" seal for their windows once they replace all polystyrene foam products, agree to recycle as much as possible, and begin to phase in other environmental measures, including composting, conserving water, disposing of grease responsibly and using chlorine-free paper products.To check on compliance, the association occasionally inspects restaurants, but more often it looks at invoices to confirm that they are buying nontoxic cleaning products, energy efficient light bulbs and the like."We have to make these certifications credible," Mr. Oshman said. "We've had issues with some clients, like one who had a contract with a recycler but the recycling company reported that the bins were always empty."José Duarte, the chef and owner of Taranta in Boston, said the association didn't just approve his efforts, it also helped get things done. "When I needed new business cards I wanted them on chlorine-free paper, and the association could tell me which printers to contact," he said. "Otherwise I would have had to call all over town myself."Keeping paper products nontoxic may be environmentally sound, but Mr. Oshman said that, increasingly, the industry is going green to save money.Mr. Duarte, for instance, said that by composting he has cut down on garbage pickups, reducing his costs by about 45 percent. He said motion sensors in the bathrooms for the fans and lighting have helped cut energy costs by as much as $2,000 a year.Mr. Oshman said his members "realize that it's good for business and good practice." And, he added, "It's better to do it voluntarily, so it doesn't get legislated."A growing number of municipalities, including Boston, Los Angeles and Santa Monica, Calif., have started citywide composting programs, which New York is considering, according to David Hurd, the director of the city's Office of Recycling Outreach and Education.New York already requires businesses to sort trash for recycling, Mr. Hurd said, but the service is not offered by all carting companies, and the law is not well-enforced. So it takes initiative to commit to recycling, as does Community Food & Juice, a small spot in Morningside Heights. And going green can add costs, at least in the beginning. Along with installing energy-saving appliances, Sharab, a lounge under construction in Gainesville, Fla., is using environmentally sound building methods that are often more expensive than conventional ones.Christopher Fillie, the restaurant's contractor, specializes in LEED construction (for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), which follows standards set by the U.S. Green Building Council, a nonprofit group based in Washington. Mr. Fillie said green construction methods, like using recycled materials and nontoxic paints, may add 10 percent to costs. But that can be offset with savings from energy conservation, utility rebates for more efficient appliances and federal tax credits for solar panels and other equipment."There's a misconception that it's only some kind of a bleeding heart thing and will be expensive," Mr. Fillie said. "But the reality is that the cost of doing business poorly is going up — like the cost of energy, for example."Some efforts are modest. Community Food & Juice uses solar-powered lamps. To use less gasoline, restaurants, like Pizza Fusion in Fort Lauderdale and Deerfield Beach, Fla., make deliveries with hybrid cars. (Birdbirth uses bicycle-powered rickshaws.) Stage Left restaurant in New Brunswick, N.J., cans its own local tomatoes, and Cava Greens in Denver, which sells tossed salad to go, discounts takeout orders that can be filled in the customer's own containers.Some require more ambition. The Pain Quotidien chain of bakery-restaurants, which began using organic ingredients about four years ago, now has a composting plant in Queens for its New York restaurants.Danielle Venokur's Manhattan firm, DVGreen, plans parties with caterers like the Cleaver Company, Fancy Girl, 'Wichcraft and FreeFoods NYC, that use organic products, recycle, compost, and take other measures. She even looks for organic flowers.Robert L. Garafola, New York City's deputy parks commissioner for management and budget, said his department is encouraging restaurants and snack bars in the parks to follow Green Restaurant Association standards, and will consider how well concessionaires comply when granting future contracts.Mr. Hanson said he had B. R. Guest's New York and Chicago restaurants certified by the Green Restaurant Association in part because his company is in a joint venture with the Starwood Capital Group, an international hotel company that already has a green agenda. But, he said, ethics played a role, too."It's also about emotions," he said. "You have no choice if you have a conscience. I'm thinking about my kids."Jason Birnbaum, who owns Doc Green's Gourmet Salad & Grill, with casual salad bars in Austin, Tex., said the new unit he just completed there was built according to LEED standards and complies with many of the Green Restaurant Association's requirements.Whether his customers care about all this is another matter."Austin is a very green city, like Seattle and San Francisco," he said. "For some people it doesn't matter, but with others, if they like our food and know we're green they may choose us."
