In a tight labor market like this one, hiring good employees is only half the battle. You also need to make sure they stay.That thought should be uppermost in your mind, even before you start looking to bring someone on board. Entrepreneur magazine  offers some tips in an article by Chris Penttila.Among them:1. Start by attracting a better class of candidates. Reward current employees for recommending good applicants.2. Be painfully clear about what the job entails. In other words, don't paint a rosy picture if the new hire is going to encounter a bunch of thorns.3. Make sure there is a personality as well as a skill fit.4. Work hard to integrate them into the company. Setting 30-day, 60-day and 90-day goals is a good way to make new workers feel they are accomplishing something (providing they actually hit the marks.)BAD NEWS BEARER Most managers are bad at delivering a poor performance review to someone who is underperforming.Pink magazine offers three suggestions about how to do it.Rehearse: "Preparing your speech might prevent you from backing out," Angela Boey writes.Countering counterattacks: Think about how the employee could interpret what you have to say. "Hurt feelings can lead to defensiveness."Help: Offer training and other resources if you believe the employee can be saved. But set a definite timeline for seeing improvement and then review the person's  performance again.TO LEARN MOREWorkforce.com is the Web site for the magazine of the same name that deals with all kinds of employment issues. You can gain access to the articles free by filling out a  short but extremely annoying registration form. (Warning: If you leave out any of the material asked for, you will have to start the sign-up process from scratch.)GOOD CALLThe site is heavy on advertisements for AT&T products. You can skip them. It is also filled with case studies where no matter what the problem is the answer is "buy/use AT&T products." You can ignore them.But once you get past all the commercials at www.att.com/OnwardSmallBiz you can find courses like Internet recruiting that you can sign up for, and articles on various topics like starting your business, by experts. The contents are fairly basic but it is accurate, helpful on the specific topics addressed, and free."According to modern myth, the typical entrepreneur is a 20-something man who is geeky, emotionally immature and one sleepless night away from fame and fortune," Margaret Heffernan writes in More. "Pretty much everything about the stereotype is wrong."Ms. Heffernan, who has started and run three companies, notes that according to the Center for Women's Business Research, companies owned by women are growing almost twice as fast as all companies."They employ more than 12.8 million people and spend about $550 billion on salaries and benefits and also generate $1.9 trillion in sales," she said.Her conclusion is that it has never been a better time for a woman to start a business, and that those started by older entrepreneurs have a great likelihood of success.As for skeptics who point out that although women own 9.2 million companies, but only 3 percent of them have revenue of more than $1 million, Ms. Heffernan writes "but that overlooks the fact that only 5 percent of all businesses have revenue over $1 million."IN GOOD COMPANY If you have ever wondered where small business fits into the big economic picture, Financial Planning magazine offers these statistics, courtesy of the Small Business Administration:• Companies with fewer than 500 employees represent "99.7 percent of all employer firms."• They employ about half of all nongovernmental workers.• They generate about half "of the U.S. private, nonfarm domestic product."• 53 percent are home-based.• 3 percent are franchises.LAST CALLReader participation time. In a future column we will list the silliest things ever said about entrepreneurship and starting a business of your own. We are especially looking for things that sound true but aren't. You know: "I'll start a business. That way I will have control over my life."No prizes for winning entries. But I promise to post the best/funniest responses and try to spell your name correctly.ALBANY, Aug. 3 — Gov. Eliot Spitzer came to Syracuse this week to bond with Assemblyman William B. Magnarelli, not to bash him.Together, with other politicians in tow, they met with civic leaders, toured the area where a foot and bicycle path supported by Mr. Magnarelli will connect Syracuse University to downtown, and then visited a housing project.How times have changed. Five months ago, the governor unleashed his anger at Mr. Magnarelli, a low-key member of the Assembly, after Mr. Magnarelli accused the governor of meddling in the Legislature's selection of one of its own, Thomas P. DiNapoli, as comptroller."Bill Magnarelli is one of those unfortunate Assembly members who just raises his hand when he's told," the governor said during a trip to Syracuse in February, a shot that was the first of a series of barbs at Assembly Democrats that shocked lawmakers eager to work with the first Democratic governor in a dozen years.One top staff member of the governor's later said that Mr. Spitzer had been so angered after learning of Mr. Magnarelli's comments that it was like a "black cloud of exclamation points appeared over his head."This  week, the headstrong governor was humble and solicitous — quietly courting lawmakers he has scorned in recent months — and the change made clear how  far Mr. Spitzer has been thrown off stride by scandal and how eager he is to rebuild. Nearly two weeks ago, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo released a report saying the governor's staff misused the state police in an attempt to discredit the governor's chief political rival, Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader.The governor has tried to quickly move past the report by taking punitive measures — indefinitely suspending his communications director and demoting another aide — and emphasizing that Mr. Cuomo found that no laws had been broken. But his back-to-business strategy has not succeeded in holding off what could be as many as four other investigations or in mollifying outraged Republicans.At best, the matter will be a monumental distraction likely to drag on for months. At worst, inquiries by the Albany County district attorney or the State Ethics Commission could find evidence of criminal wrongdoing and tie up the governor and his staff indefinitely, and state business would  remain in limbo.Thus, a governor who came into office with guns blazing is trying something new:  making nice. This week, he invited two dozen politicians to accompany him on various stops in Syracuse, Rochester and Watertown."The governor talked about his problems and was very forthright, I believe, took responsibility for them and said he was going to do everything he could to put this behind us,"  Mr. Magnarelli said, describing the governor's comments at a meeting this week with lawmakers and civic leaders.Mr. Magnarelli said he had let bygones be bygones.  "I can't say I was happy about what he did when he came into Syracuse after the comptroller vote," he said,  "but since then his office has been open to me." He added that the governor appeared to be using the crisis to mend fences."The more anyone comes out and talks to people and visits people and listens to what's happening with the important projects that we want to get off the ground, it can't help but help," Mr. Magnarelli  said. "In all honesty, I think he still is the right person for the job."Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the Legislature's top Democrat, said the governor's overtures had been noticed."Wherever he's going, he calls legislators in advance to tell them," Mr. Silver said, adding that when various initiatives come up "he is sharing, recognizing that those things were done with the Legislature and these were goals that have been achieved with the Legislature."Mr. Silver, who has had a mercurial relationship with the governor, has been emerging as a key defender of Mr. Spitzer's; this week he publicly objected as Senate Republicans agitated to start their own investigation.The past two weeks have left even many of the governor's strongest supporters dismayed that his credibility to deliver on arguably his central campaign pledge, to clean up the ethically challenged state government, has been fatally compromised."You talk about agents of change; we really thought Mr. Spitzer was that agent of change," said Barbara Bartoletti,  legislative director of the League of Women Voters of New York State. "Now the governor really has to prove that he is that agent of change."With investigations going on at almost every level of state government, Ms. Bartoletti, who has been on the scene since the Hugh Carey administration, said the state of ethics in Albany was "almost laughable" and relations among lawmakers "worse than I've ever seen."The advice from most quarters is the same. The governor must come clean — he says he knew nothing about the improper activity laid out in the Cuomo report  — and learn to play nice with the other children  in the sandbox, so to speak.Mr. Bruno, the target of the scheme laid out in the Cuomo report, is not in a forgiving mood. In an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal on Thursday, he wrote that the governor "has politicized his office like no other governor in history.""Apparently, with the State Assembly and every statewide office controlled by Democrats, Mr. Spitzer came to view Senate Republicans as the only thing standing in his way," he added. "On this particular point, the governor is absolutely correct."WASHINGTON, Aug. 9 — Ben Stevens is often said by Alaskans to be the spitting image of his father, Senator Ted Stevens. They have the same broad forehead, wide-set eyes and compact physique. They share the same rough-hewn personality, seemingly always spoiling for a fight.Now, father and son share a new, unwelcome distinction. Both are under investigation by the Justice Department over their ties to an Alaska businessman who has confessed to bribing public officials.The Alaska home of Ted Stevens, the longest-serving Republican in the Senate, was raided last week by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. His son's offices in the Alaska Legislature — he was a state senator until this year — were raided last summer.Neither Ted Stevens, who is 83, nor Ben Stevens, 48, a fisherman turned politician and lobbyist who is the youngest of the senator's three sons, has been charged with a crime.But in court papers in May in which he admitted to bribery, the Alaska businessman, Bill J. Allen, acknowledged making $243,000 in possibly illegal payments to a state lawmaker identified  only as "Senator B." Although he denies wrongdoing, Ben Stevens, who has acknowledged receiving about $243,000 in consulting fees from Mr. Allen's oil-services firm, has not disputed that he is "Senator B."It is undeniable that Ben Stevens has earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in consulting fees from companies and industry groups that have been the recipients of huge federal grants steered to Alaska by his father in recent years.Prosecutors are now investigating whether Senator Stevens directed money to projects that benefited his son's lobbying clients. Until Democrats took control of the Senate this year, Senator Stevens had been chairman of the Appropriations Committee, which determines how the federal budget is actually spent.People with knowledge of the investigation, speaking on condition of anonymity because of grand jury secrecy, say the F.B.I. is reviewing Senator Stevens's involvement in millions of dollars in earmarks to fishing and seafood companies that his son represented, as well as a $1.6 million appropriation to an Alaska marine sciences center to buy land owned by one of his son's business partners.The story of the Stevens family is central to the rough-and-tumble history of Alaska politics — the elder Stevens entered the Senate in 1968, a decade after Alaska was granted statehood — and the latest chapter has its elements of tortured family drama.Many Alaskans have been left wondering whether it was a doting, fiercely ambitious father who brought the son under the suspicion of criminal investigators, or  an intemperate, boastful son who entangled his aging father in the Justice Department's fast-growing investigation."Tragedy is a pretty powerful word, but, yes, it applies," said Jack Roderick, a former law partner of Ted Stevens who was mayor of Anchorage in the 1970s.Mr. Roderick said he suspected that Ben Stevens's tough-as-nails political style might help explain why his father had found himself under federal scrutiny. Mr. Roderick described Ted Stevens as "a father with a son who may have overstepped the bounds."Ben Stevens's criminal defense lawyer, John Wolfe, said it might be precisely the opposite — that his client had come under unfair scrutiny by prosecutors because he is the son of a powerful senator with many adversaries. In Alaska, Mr. Wolfe said, "many people view life through a prism that is decidedly anti-Stevens."Mr. Allen, the businessman at the center of the investigation, and Senator Stevens have been business partners in recent years; they were co-owners of a racehorse. But according to local news media reports, witnesses before a federal grand jury say that what appears to have attracted the attention of prosecutors is Mr. Allen's unusual role in renovating the Stevens family home in Girdwood, the house that was raided last week.Contractors were instructed to forward their bills for the renovation, which more than doubled the size of the house, to Mr. Allen's oil-services business, VECO, not to the senator. Mr. Stevens has insisted that he paid every bill that was forwarded to him; he said those bills totaled about $130,000. The question before prosecutors is whether Mr. Allen paid some of the renovation costs in exchange for legislative favors.Since the F.B.I. raid on his office last year, Ben Stevens has mostly stopped talking to reporters. But in the past, he had denied in interviews that he owed his success as a state politician and business consultant — under state law, he was allowed to do both simultaneously — to his father's influence in Washington."I've been living with it my whole life," he was quoted as telling The Anchorage Daily News in 2002. "There's nothing I can do to get rid of him as my dad."Those comments came in response to financial disclosure forms filed by Mr. Stevens in the State Senate and other documents made public that year that revealed he had been paid more than $715,000 in salary and bonuses for three years' work on the 2001 Special Olympics World Winter Games in Anchorage.The effort to bring the Special Olympics to Alaska had been a pet project of his father in Washington, and from his post on the Appropriations Committee, Senator Stevens helped steer millions of dollars in federal money to support the competition for mentally disabled athletes; the 2001 games were mostly underwritten by federal taxpayers.After the games, Ben Stevens received two consulting and fund-raising contracts from Special Olympics, the Washington organization  that oversees the games. The contracts were worth a total of $36,000. The larger contract was for $4,000 a month over a six-month period in 2001.There is no evidence that his work for the Special Olympics has drawn any sort of scrutiny by  investigators.But the generosity of his pay package for a nonprofit event, and Mr. Stevens's subsequent consulting contracts with Special Olympics, drew strong criticism in Alaska and seemed to demonstrate how the younger Mr. Stevens had capitalized on his father's influence on Capitol Hill.Jerry McBeath, a professor of political science at the University of Alaska in Fairbanks, said Ben Stevens was seen in the state  as someone whose success was due largely to his bloodline: "What he has done in life has had less to do with native ability than with the fact that he's the son of a very powerful United States senator."Ted Stevens, whose spokesmen in Washington did not return phone calls for comment this week, have said in the past that he had nothing to do with his son's appointment to the Special Olympics organizing committee or his pay for the 2001 games.Leslie Aun, a Special Olympics spokeswoman, said the Anchorage games were considered "an extraordinary and wonderful event." Mr. Stevens was hired and paid by the local organizing committee, Ms. Aun said, adding, "We didn't have any role in that."Ms. Aun said Mr. Stevens had been a valuable paid consultant to her group after the games and helped organize a major fund-raising drive.HAROLD S. GENEEN, then  chief executive  of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation,   appeared on the cover of Time magazine in September 1967 with the headline "Conglomerates: The New Business Giants." I.T.T.'s holdings were as disparate as insurance, hotels and real estate, and its sales reached $17 billion in 1970.I.T.T.'s status as a symbol of the quintessential American business was short-lived, however. The  company was accused of helping to topple  President Salvador Allende Gossens of Chile and was the focus of numerous investigations, and the conglomerate as a business model faded over the years. Instead, the new mantra became one of stressing "core competencies"  — in other words, concentrating on a relatively few businesses in which the companies excelled.But among the flood of companies reporting second-quarter earnings, there is a largely unheralded trend:  the conglomerates are back, and back in a big way. And investors are noticing.I.T.T., now a $7.8 billion-a-year company based in a modest office park in White Plains,  reported a 52 percent surge in earnings on the basis of sales in water treatment systems and military and surveillance systems. The company's chief executive, Steven R. Loranger, says the company is on track for a fifth consecutive year of record profitability. Its stock trades at very rich price-to-earnings ratio of about 20, based on current-year earnings. "We've reinvented ourselves," Mr. Loranger said.Other revitalized conglomerates include Textron, based in  Providence, R.I., and the  owner of companies like  Cessna and Bell Helicopter. Textron beat earnings forecasts by 24 cents a share, according to a  Cowen & Company analysts' report that called the period a "blowout" quarter. And Honeywell International, a diversified industrial company based in Morristown, N.J., recorded a 17 percent rise in second-quarter profit, largely on the strength of its aerospace holdings.This universe of 25 to 30 companies is outperforming the market as a whole and would be doing even better if not for the fact that General Electric, which pioneered many of the management techniques they are using, has performed relatively poorly.  Still, C. Stephen Tusa Jr., an analyst at JPMorgan Securities,  estimates that even after recent volatility, the financial markets are giving the 13 diversified industrial companies he covers a P/E ratio of 18 for the current year, compared with about 15.5 for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. "It's a 15 percent premium," Mr. Tusa said.This class of companies includes such well-known giants as  United Technologies, 3M and Siemens, but also a raft of smaller companies like  Danaher, Emerson Electric and Illinois Tool Works. Warren E. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway also owns diverse industrial companies, but because it does not seek to actively manage its holdings in an integrated fashion, it isn't generally included as part of this category.To some extent, the new conglomerates have simply become lucky. They are riding a global infrastructure spending boom for airports and airlines, power systems, waste water and environmental projects, and hospitals and health care systems, not to mention record government spending on military projects and security surveillance. Their ability to assemble product offerings from different industries is a source of strength, they say.Ken Cornelius, president and chief executive of Siemens One, an Atlanta-based subsidiary of the German parent company, says Siemens can provide up to 40 percent of the goods and services needed to build a new hospital, for example, ranging from medical imaging equipment and information technology systems to power systems and building automation equipment.  Many of the diversified industrial companies are well positioned to take advantage of global opportunities because their offshore sales are typically 35 to 50 percent of their total revenue.But the chief executives of these companies (as well as many Wall Street analysts) say that there's more to it than just luck — that they have largely transformed how they do business over the past five years. Gone are the days  when C.E.O.'s bought largely unrelated companies and held them in nearly passive portfolios of assets without seeking to transform their managements, processes or products."When you look back at the history, the companies were put together without any real integration," said David M. Cote, the chief executive of Honeywell. "They were really just holding companies. They didn't try to do anything to make the businesses better."This new breed of C.E.O. has embraced many of the techniques of John F. Welch Jr.  at G.E. and borrowed liberally from the lean production techniques of Toyota Motor as well. Technological systems, like  enterprise resource planning software, allow them to manage their companies more tightly. They are training top executives to think about their whole enterprises, not just about small pieces of the whole. And rather than being sleepy backwaters, some of these conglomerates have become innovators."We've had to radically change every aspect of how we make decisions, how we behave and how we execute," said Lewis B. Campbell, chief executive  of Textron.The remaking of  old-line conglomerates seems to have started around the time of the 2001-2002 recession. Honeywell faced particular problems because of its merger with Allied Signal and a subsequent unsuccessful G.E. takeover attempt. "We were flailing," Mr. Cote said. "We had a year and a half or two of crawling through mud."Beginning in 2003, Mr. Cote has presided over $5.3 billion in acquisitions and $2.4 billion in divestitures. He said that he personally reviews any acquisition of $50 million or more and reviews progress at 30-, 60- and 90-day intervals, for example."That creates a real discipline for people to get things done," he said.Honeywell's aerospace businesses are performing well, as are its automation and control-solutions division (think of your home thermostat) and its heating and ventilation unit. Profit in specialty materials and transportation have slipped. But its stock is up more than 28 percent this year.Mr. Tusa of JPMorgan says that the new conglomerates are making smarter M.& A. decisions."These companies have definitely acted in a more astute way in terms of return on invested capital and capital allocation decisions," he said. "They're not just buying a company because it's accretive to earnings."Textron's strong earnings result in part from a transformation of its internal management processes. Mr. Campbell says the company had 88 data centers when he started, but he consolidated them into two centers, then outsourced them. That set the stage for common engineering systems across the company's businesses, which include automation and control solutions, specialty materials and transportation systems, in addition to Cessna airplanes and Bell helicopters.Mr. Campbell also changed the company's compensation system so that its top 1,000 employees are rewarded for how the whole company performs, not just for how their individual operating units fare.OUTSIDE analysts agree with the C.E.O.'s that the application of these standardized management processes across all their operating units has had a major impact."It is what makes the wholes worth more than the sum of their parts," says Michael Mankins, a  partner at Bain & Company based in San Francisco.Will the new conglomerates run out of gas if the global economic cycle shifts suddenly? Not likely, some analysts say. "They are better positioned to weather the storm," Mr. Tusa said.The C.E.O.'s themselves are decidedly optimistic, of course. "We're not at the end of the runway," said Mr. Campbell of Textron. "We fully intend to double the value of the company every five years. We think we know how to do it."OMAHA, Aug. 3 (AP) — Berkshire Hathaway, the holding company of the billionaire Warren E. Buffett, reported Friday that its net income jumped nearly 33 percent during the second quarter because of strong performance from its insurance division.Berkshire said it earned $3.1 billion, or $2,018 for each Class A share, during the quarter that ended June 30. That's up from $2.3 billion, or $1,522 a share, last year.Berkshire said its companies and investments generated $27.3 billion in revenue for the quarter, up from $24.1 billion in the same period a year ago.Berkshire's insurance business generated nearly $6 billion in premiums during the quarter, up from $5.8 billion a year ago.Companies including Geico and the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group recorded a $632 million underwriting profit during the quarter, up from $371 million in 2006.Geico, the auto insurer, also continued to gain  customers and add to its underwriting profits. Geico reported a $325 million pretax underwriting profit in the second quarter, up from $288 million a year ago.Geico had 381,000 more car insurance policies in force at the end of June than it did at the end of 2006.The underwriting profit also includes $356 million from the Reinsurance Group, up from $137 million last year.But Berkshire cautioned that those numbers could be misleading, because last year's underwriting results for the first six months were weighed down by about $245 million in losses from earlier catastrophes, primarily Hurricane Wilma.And premiums in the first six months of 2007 declined about 50 percent compared with the first six months of 2006, mostly because of increased competition for catastrophe reinsurance.Through the first half of the year, Berkshire recorded net income of $5.7 billion on revenue of $60.3 billion.That is up from last year, when the company recorded $4.7 billion on revenue of $46.9 billion.Berkshire said it had nearly $47 billion in cash on hand, up from $46 billion at the end of the first quarter.Berkshire Hathaway's Class A shares fell $100 Friday to close at $109,900 before the report was released. Its Class B shares gained $11 to close at $3,599.Berkshire owns more than 60 subsidiaries including insurance, clothing, furniture and candy companies, restaurants, and natural gas and corporate jet firms, and it has major investments in companies like Coca-Cola, Anheuser-Busch and Wells Fargo.Larry Mathews, who earned a reputation as New York's most wide-awake hairdresser by opening what seems to have been the city's first 24-hour beauty parlor to serve insomniacs, talk-show guests, showgirls and other working women, died on Tuesday  in Aventura, Fla. He was 86.His family announced his death.Mr. Mathews served the nocturnal need of those seeking teasing, frosting, cutting, waxing, eyebrow enhancement, nail coloring, blow-drying and more. Clients — who he said included Jacqueline Susann, Eleanor Roosevelt and Marilyn Monroe — were invited to play backgammon or sip a cocktail as their appearances became more pleasing.The beautification enterprise belonged to an era when, at least in memory, more places seemed to be open much later in New York, if not all night. At 4 a.m., you could down a cheeseburger at the Brasserie in the Seagram Building, take a Turkish bath at Luxor Baths, shoot a game of pool at McGirr's Billiard Academy. You could buy a coconut at a Ninth Street fruit stand or a potted palm on Lexington Avenue.As Mr. Mathews saw it, his all-hours beauty parlors (he eventually had dozens) fulfilled an urgent demand."I'm sort of like a surgeon," he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1976. "Not looking good is like a cancer. There's a lot of pain in not being beautiful."At his peak in the early 1970s, Mr. Mathews had expanded his after-hours cosmetology concept across the nation to 131 salons, from Miami to Las Vegas to Hollywood. He sold the chain in 1974.His commitment to convenience was shown by regularly sending a limousine to pick up a woman's wig in the morning so his staff could set it and comb it, then deliver it in time for an evening engagement.His beauty ventures also included a line of copies of famous French fragrances like Chanel and Joy. The perfume industry sued and lost.By accident, when Mr. Mathews was trying to build a machine that would not burn women during waxing, he developed a cream for painless depilation. Called Hair Off, it became a staple in beauty parlors and later was sold for home use.Mr. Mathews could wax eloquent on the subject of body hair."Women shouldn't shave," he said to The Times. "You shave and you're growing a beard all over your body. You're making stubble for yourself."Hair Off, by contrast, left only baby fuzz, he promised.Mr. Mathews learned some photography in the Army and after his discharge set up shop as a studio photographer, specializing in publicity stills for aspiring starlets. Before he snapped the photographs, he liked to work on their eyes and mouths, which led him into theatrical makeup and cosmetics.His clientele was showgirls at the Copacabana and the Latin Quarter, so a 24-hour beauty salon seemed a logical step. He opened his first in 1953 in the Great Northern Hotel on West 57th Street near Carnegie Hall, enabling him to cater to show-business people. He reasoned that a hotel was a nice location for all-night beauty parlors because there was someone protective in the lobby.All his stylists were men who specialized in the exotic coiffures the Broadway-type customers requested. Free makeup consultations were available on the first visit if women wanted them.Despite having many well-off customers, Mr. Mathews was provocatively populist when it came to the sacred cows of the beauty business."No haircut is worth $50," he told The Times. "Every month you have to have it cut again. It's ridiculous to spend $35 to have your legs waxed. It's even more ridiculous to spend $100 for an ounce of perfume."His solution to the perfume question was his line of copies of French fragrances, developed in Switzerland and sold for $10 an ounce. As for hair, he said in an interview with The Times in 1961 that wearing wigs could cut a woman's beauty bill by 40 percent. He said they remained set for as long as three months.Asked who would buy them, he answered, "About half the regulars at the Copacabana."Mr. Mathews is survived by his daughter, B. Ryan, and three grandchildren.John Leonard, in the 1976 "About New York" column in which Mr. Mathews was interviewed, summed up his achievement as a beauty magnate."In this town, at 2 o'clock in the morning," he wrote, "you can't get into most churches, but electrolysis and pedicures are a cinch."The stock market's volatility is making portfolio managers nervous, but it is not making them sell, many say. Instead, their response to the cascade from record highs has been to ensure that they own shares of businesses less sensitive than most to changes in economic conditions or to the whims of investment fashion.Even if the economy slows markedly or financing dries up for private equity and hedge funds — two key suspects in the recent decline — certain categories of stocks are expected to outperform the market. These are stable-growth companies whose business is necessities or cheap, desirable basics, like food and drinks, health care, clothing, leisure and entertainment. Their earnings tend to be consistent no matter how the economy is doing, and they have been almost ignored by private equity and hedge fund managers.When mutual fund managers are asked to name stocks that they are most comfortable clinging to in turbulent market conditions, these are the industries they cite.Randall Haase, manager of the Baron Fifth Avenue Growth fund, says he has an "ultra-high focus on quality" that steers him toward stable growth companies. He especially likes businesses that are taking market share from their peers and are involved in industries that are growing ahead of the curve."If I'm in a canoe, I want to have the current with me, not against me," he said.His first choice is the British company Diageo. It is the world's largest seller of spirits, through such brands as Smirnoff, Jose Cuervo, J & B and Guinness. That business is booming as younger drinkers graduate from beer to mixed drinks, Mr. Haase said.Another selection is Procter & Gamble, which has no shortage of top brands of its own, including Tide detergent, Bounty paper towels, Crest toothpaste and Gillette razors."If you look at the businesses they're in, beauty, health care and home care are growing more rapidly than other segments of the consumer industry," he said, yet the stock is all but ignored by other investors. The same goes for Diageo, and he finds the lack of interest in these and other "extremely predictable and reliable" companies baffling."Some of them trade at the same or lower valuations than the market, but they have that 20-year track record of consistent, strong earnings growth," Mr. Haase said. "It doesn't make sense. Usually they get a premium for that consistency."Barbara S. Walchli, manager of the Aquila Rocky Mountain Equity Fund, says she is looking for consistency with something extra, and that has lured her particularly into health care.Ms. Walchli says three of her choices exhibit "strong new-product momentum": Merit Medical Systems, a maker of cardiac and other surgical devices; Myriad Genetics, which has a drug for Alzheimer's disease in clinical trials; and Spectranetics, a maker of items like catheters used in cardiovascular procedures."These companies are producing products which improve patient outcomes and can potentially reduce health care costs," Ms. Walchli said. "With the aging of the baby boomers, these products and cost savings will be important."Richard S. Drake, manager of the Aston/ABN Amro Growth Fund, also likes health care companies with "value-added products that are good for patients and cost effective," such as ResMed, which makes medical appliances, and Express Scripts, a consultancy that manages pharmacy benefit programs.Mr. Drake's list of comfort stocks strayed from the staples favored by his peers. His favorites include General Electric; Boeing; Illinois Tool Works, which supplies products including adhesives, cooking equipment and packaging materials; and Johnson Controls, a maker of components for automobiles and environmental systems for buildings.Mr. Drake predicted that strong order backlogs, leadership positions in their markets and international growth should keep those companies well insulated in a market decline.Moving back to basics, Robert C. Barringer, manager of the F.B.R. Pegasus Fund, said he is avoiding economically sensitive sectors that have performed well this year, including energy and auto manufacturing, and concentrating on consumer standbys and health care.Examples include the chewing gum purveyor Wrigley; 3M, which makes Scotch tape and other inedible consumer staples; Novo Nordisk, a Danish company that is a world leader in diabetes treatment; and the drugstore chain Walgreen."You can get into these areas without being worried about valuations," Mr. Barringer said. "The sectors with less risk are cheaper. You don't have to pay as much for your safety."
