It is a basic tenet of university research: Economists conduct joint studies, chemists join forces in the laboratory, political scientists share ideas about other cultures — but rarely do the researchers cross disciplinary lines.The political landscape of academia, combined with the fight for grant money, has always fostered competition far more than collaboration.But the threat of global warming may just change all that.Take what's happening at the Rochester Institute of Technology. In September the school established the Golisano Institute for Sustainability, aimed at getting students and professors from different disciplines to collaborate in studying the environmental ramifications of production and consumption."The academic tradition is to let one discipline dominate new programs," said Nabil Nasr, the institute's director. "But the problem of sustainability cuts across economics, social elements, engineering, everything. It simply cannot be solved by one discipline, or even by coupling two disciplines."Neil Hawkins, Dow Chemical's vice president for sustainability, sees it that way, too. Thus, Dow is giving $10 million, spread over five years, to the University of California, Berkeley, to set up a sustainability center."Berkeley has one of the strongest chemical engineering schools in the world, but it will be the M.B.A.'s who understand areas like microfinance solutions to drinking water problems," Mr. Hawkins said.That realization is spreading throughout academia. So more universities are setting up stand-alone centers that offer neutral ground on which engineering students can work on alternative fuels while business students calculate the economics of those fuels and political science majors figure how to make the fuels palatable to governments in both developing nations and America's states."We give professors a chance to step beyond their usual areas of expertise, and we give students exposure to the worlds of science and business," said Daniel C. Esty, director of the year-old Yale Center for Business and the Environment, a joint effort between the School of Management and the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies.Similar setups are getting easier to find. Last year, the University of Tennessee consolidated all of its environmental research programs under a new Institute for a Secure and Sustainable Environment. Arizona State University did the same in 2004, when it inaugurated its Global Institute of Sustainability.The Arizona institute reports directly to the university president and is run by Jonathan Fink, who is also the university's sustainability officer."We want all the departments to contribute without thinking they own the initiative themselves," Mr. Fink said. Already, experts in biogeochemistry — the study of the scientific underpinnings of earth's origins and existing biosystems — are working with social scientists to study the impact of rapid urbanization on plants and animals.It is impossible to quantify the growth of stand-alone centers. There is no naming convention — some are sustainability centers, some are environmental institutes and some are  global warming initiatives. And many do not stand alone at all, but are neatly tucked inside an existing school.For example, in 2003 the University of Pittsburgh School of Engineering dedicated the Mascaro Sustainability Initiative, which studies green construction and sustainable water use.Nor do the environmentally themed names necessarily convey an enviro-centric agenda. Many sustainability centers — the Kenan-Flagler Center for Sustainable Enterprise at the University of North Carolina is a good example — address global cultures, business ethics and corporate social responsibility along with environmental issues.The Aspen Institute's Center for Business Education compiled a list of more than 600 academic centers that, at first blush, sound as if they would be stand-alone environmental facilities. Rich Leimsider, its director, figures only a handful really are."We are seeing more centers framed as sustainability, but they may not be qualitatively different from the ethics, innovation or globalization centers of 15 years ago," he said. "Universities realize that you can discuss sustainability with a C.E.O. and not get laughed out of the room."But Mr. Leimsider said he does see more stand-alone centers that are devoted primarily to analyzing environmental problems, influencing environmental policy and preparing students to think collaboratively when they try to solve those problems outside the academic world.Many of the centers have one foot set squarely outside the ivory tower. Mr. Esty said the Yale center was developing an "eco-services clinic" that would help companies address various environmental issues. Duke's Corporate Sustainability Initiative, which is a joint venture of its earth sciences, business and environmental policy schools, is also a founding member of the Chicago Sustainable Business Alliance. Its faculty and students have already developed a small wind turbine for private use, and have helped local businesses reduce their carbon footprints.Nor does the money for the centers necessarily come from university coffers. Often, it comes from individuals who are passionate about the environment. More than 10 years ago, Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb gave $5 million to the University of Michigan to found the Erb Institute for Global Sustainable Enterprise. They have given an additional $15 million since.Thomas P. Lyon, the institute's director, said much of the money goes to defray third-year costs for graduate students who pursue a dual degree in business and natural sciences. But the institute is now talking to venture capitalists about teaching students to invest in green technologies, and is setting up projects for students in China and elsewhere. It also gives small research grants to professors who affiliate with the institute; most recently, it awarded money for a study of botanical gardens."We provide a community where students and professors can discuss research with different disciplines," Mr. Lyon said.Similarly, Julie A. Wrigley, who has a home in Arizona, provided $15 million for Arizona State's institute, and this year gave an additional $10 million to create a degree-granting School of Sustainability within the institute.The vast majority of the money for the Golisano Institute in Rochester came from B. Thomas Golisano, the founder of Paychex and one of the underwriters of the Clinton Global Initiative.Mr. Golisano, who donated $10 million, said he expected the institute to "produce the first generation of professionals with the vision and know-how to deliver on the promise of sustainability." Indeed, Mr. Nasr said the institute already offers courses on sustainability to all freshman and is asking students to submit ideas for projects.Sometimes, government chips in. Mr. Fink notes that Phoenix is "the poster child" for the so-called urban heat island effect — the phenomenon in which big cities absorb heat during the day and release it at night, causing temperatures to rise. So his institute has amassed funds from the Environmental Protection Agency, the State of Arizona and some local businesses for a project to see if certain construction materials can alleviate the problem.Companies are getting into the financing act as well. Unlike traditional partnerships between business and academia, in which companies that provide funds have the right to commercialize any breakthroughs, most of these funds come with no strings attached.Several years ago Enterprise Rent-a-Car donated $10 million to the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center in St. Louis for research on growing crops for food. This year it gave $25 million to create the Enterprise Institute in conjunction with Danforth, to do research into biobased fuels."Danforth understands cellulosic research, so they are best positioned to figure out how to make fuel from soy and corn," said Patrick T. Farrell, vice president for corporate responsibility at Enterprise.Four companies — ExxonMobil, General Electric, Schlumberger and Toyota — have anted up for the Stanford University Global Climate and Energy Project, which explores new energy technologies. The Shell Oil Foundation has been financing Rice University's Shell Center for Sustainability since 2002. Wal-Mart has promised money for an Applied Sustainability Center at the University of Arkansas.Berkeley, meanwhile, is using Dow's gift to set up a Sustainable Products and Solutions Program within its existing Center for Responsible Business. That is in the Haas Business School, but Kellie A. McElhaney, the center's director, insists the program will draw on Berkeley's chemists, biologists, financial analysts, policy specialists, even lawyers.The program is now taking applications for grants from Berkeley students and professors who want to conduct collaborative research into topics like providing clean drinking water or more efficient fuels. And Ms. McElhaney said other companies have expressed willingness to kick in funds."Commercialization takes forever if the chemical engineers and the business types do not coordinate," she said. "So think how much easier it will be for chemistry graduates to work inside a company if they already know how to interact with the business side."Reena Mehta, a daughter of Manjula Mehta and Dr. Jagat S. Mehta of Pittsford, N.Y., is to be married Sunday to Dashiell Deben Flynn, the son of Daphne Makinson of Washington and John Flynn of Montpelier, Vt. Patricia Gahagan, a justice of the peace in Woodbury, Vt., will officiate at her home. On Nov. 16, Pandit Surendra B. Joshi, a Hindu priest, performed a Hindu ceremony at the Jag Mandir Palace in Udaipur, India.The couple graduated from Vassar, where they met.The bride, 28, is keeping her name. She works in New York for MTV Networks International as the interactive manager; she distributes the online content from Nickelodeon and Comedy Central to their international partners.Her father is an internist in private practice in Rochester and is a senior clinical instructor in the department of medicine at the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry. He is also on the board of the Unity Health System, a conglomerate of hospitals and nursing homes in the Rochester area, and on the board of the Unity Health Foundation.The bridegroom, 30, is a consultant at Accenture, the management and consulting firm in Washington; he works with government agencies to improve their business strategy. He received a master's in public administration and international development from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.His mother is the deputy director of the Habitat for Humanity affiliate in Washington.LOS ANGELES (AP) — A hedge fund company that lost its chief executive in a weekend plane crash named his successor on Wednesday, a company executive said.The company, Pacificor, which is based in Santa Barbara, Calif., promoted a vice president and portfolio manager, Andrew B. Mitchell, to the top spot after its chief, Michael B. Klein, was killed in Panama, Kurt A. Benjamin, vice president of business development, said.Mr. Klein, 37, who became chief executive in 2001, was responsible for the company's investment strategy and operations. He and Mr. Mitchell ran the company's $600 million portfolio.On Tuesday, rescuers found Mr. Klein and two other victims in the wreckage of a Cessna 172 in the jungle high on the flanks of the Baru volcano, about 270 miles west of Panama City.Also killed were Mr. Klein's daughter, Talia, 13, and Edwin Lasso, 23, the pilot.The lone survivor was a family friend, Francesca Lewis, 12, who apparently suffered a broken arm and hypothermia, her mother, Valerie Lewis, said in a telephone interview from Boquete, Panama, a resort village miles away from the crash site.Mr. Klein was on vacation with the two girls at a resort he owns in the Central American nation.Pacificor is a registered investment adviser that manages several hedge funds focused on high-yield debt, according to the company Web site.SINCE 2001, Lee Zimmerman's  Evergreen Lodge  has helped almost 60 low-income young adults get their lives on track, while consistently paying 9 percent back to investors backing his business. Pura Vida Coffee, of  which John Sage was a co-founder  in 1997, has generated $2.7 million in cash and resources for health and education programs for children and their families.Both companies deserve praise for their good deeds. But what might be more remarkable about the founders of Pura Vida and Evergreen Lodge is the way they raised capital to build businesses that have two bottom lines: one financial and one social.Such business models are becoming  increasingly popular among philanthropists and foundations, which like the idea of self-sustaining charities. They also want their investments to have the same kind of social impact as their donations, an idea called mission-related, or program-related, investing. A study released earlier this year by FSG Social Impact Advisors, a consultancy founded by Michael E. Porter, a Harvard Business School professor, and Mark Kramer, a former venture capitalist, calculated that mission-related investing has grown by 16.2 percent a year over the last five years.At the same time, businesses like Pura Vida and Evergreen blur the line between charities and companies. That's a hurdle to raising money, because investing in a for-profit company does not yield a tax deduction. And such businesses often need extra time to succeed. Grameen Bank, which won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006 for validating the idea of microfinance, was subsidized for 15 years, notes J. Gregory Dees, a professor at the  Fuqua School of Business at Duke University.  (In 2006, Grameen made $20 million on $135 million in revenue.)There is not yet a template for financing such businesses, says R. Todd Johnson, a lawyer at Jones Day  who has handled a number of deals for social entrepreneurs and is writing a book to be called "Greed Is Bad." Because the entrepreneurs want to make sure that investors can't change the social mission for the sake of profits, "you get these one-off, crazy, debt-equity weird structures," he says. "People say, 'Gosh, you're making my head hurt.'"Mr. Sage's efforts to fund Pura Vida show just how migraine-inducing these deals can be. He set up Pura Vida Coffee as a for-profit company, earmarking all profits for its nonprofit arm. To raise money the first time, and to allow Pura Vida to accept grants, he created the nonprofit organization, Pura Vida Partners, which became the owner of Pura Vida Coffee. Pura Vida Partners issued $1.8 million in interest-paying bonds, each of which would, when paid off, convert into a warrant for a share in the parent organization. Shareholders were required to donate dividends to a charity but couldn't claim that as a tax deduction.The structure of the deal wound up biting Mr. Sage, as it tied his hands early on. Pura Vida grew faster than he expected, in part because its mission struck a chord with college students. The company needed money to buy new equipment and supplies, but interest payments were eating up all of its cash. Led by Mr. Sage, the largest debt holder, 18 of the 19 other investors agreed to restructure their debt into common stock that would dilute their holdings from 60 percent of Pura Vida Partners to 12 percent and to allow the company to create preferred stock, which it sold to raise more capital. It was thus similar to a typical private offering, but with a twist: the common shares — held by those original investors focused on the mission — are the only ones with voting rights, to insulate the social goals of the company.Freshly capitalized, Pura Vida eventually was able to fund growth from its operations. It's on track to make a net profit in 2008.The contrast between Mr. Sage's financing experience and that of Mr. Zimmerman and his co-founders suggests that a simple and traditional financing structure makes the most sense for businesses that are considered socially responsible. Evergreen Lodge, just outside of Yosemite National Park, hires promising young people from low-income areas. The three co-founders believed that they could give these people a foundation for more stable lives by putting them in a rural environment with a full-time "counselor" who paid close attention  to their needs.Evergreen Lodge's holding company, First Light Destinations, raised money through a conventional debt-equity financing, in which a third of its money came in the form of equity from investors and two-thirds from a bank loan. Its results have been strong enough that First Light has paid dividends to its investors for the last two years. It also has in place a provision allowing it to issue debt in the future to pay back investors the full amount of their original investment, without requiring them to give up their shares. That allows investors to get a good financial return on their investment without having to push for the company to go public or be acquired.Mr. Zimmerman and his partners and their investors are still refining the model. But he's excited that the basic model has worked, and he says that "what we're trying to do can be applied to many different kinds of businesses."If he's right, the timing is excellent. Billions of dollars could soon start flowing to social entrepreneurs, especially from foundations. Recently, the Annie E. Casey Foundation, the F. B. Heron Foundation and the Meyer Memorial Trust called on all the nation's foundations to invest 2 percent of their endowments into such organizations. If answered, that call would bring an estimated $10 billion into the social investing realm over the next five years.Mr. Dees at Duke cautions that there still aren't well-developed market mechanisms for double-bottom-line investors. But he called what's happening on the financing side of Pura Vida and Evergreen Lodge "extremely exciting" and said he thinks that "these kinds of companies will make headway against serious social problems."Mr. Sage calls it compassionate capitalism, while stating the obvious: if the capitalism doesn't work, there will be no compassion.United Rentals Inc. said in a statement on Monday that it would accept last week's court ruling and stop pursuing a merger agreement with the private equity firm, Cerberus Capital Management, seeking a $100 million termination fee instead.A Delaware judge, William B. Chandler III of Delaware's Court of Chancery,  on Friday ruled against the United Rentals petition to force the private equity firm to complete its $4 billion buyout. The court said that Cerberus could abandon the purchase by paying a $100 million breakup fee to United Rentals, as stipulated by the deal agreement.Monday morning, United Rental said in a statement: "In light of Chancellor Chandler's December 21(st) opinion, the United Rentals board of directors has determined that the company is best served by terminating the merger agreement and the constraints it imposes. We remain committed to enhancing shareholder value, and believe the immediate need is to move forward and focus our energies on our business."The case had been closely watched on Wall Street. Since the credit markets seized up this summer, several buyout firms have tried to walk away from deals, citing the deteriorating financial health of the companies they had agreed to acquire.The court battle thrust Cerberus, the publicity-shy firm that acquired Chrysler  this year, into the spotlight.United Rentals had argued that Cerberus could not abandon the deal without invoking what is known as a material adverse affect clause, a legal escape hatch that is usually written into deal agreements. Legal observers said that the contract was so ambiguous that Judge Chandler could have ruled either way.In his ruling, Judge Chandler wrote that Cerberus and its lawyers had negotiated the contract with the understanding that they could call off the buyout simply by paying the breakup fee. United Rentals, however, failed to effectively communicate its understanding of the deal agreement."From the beginning of the process, Cerberus and its attorneys have aggressively negotiated this contract, and along the way they have communicated their intentions and understandings to U.R.I.," Judge Chandler wrote. "Despite the Herculean efforts of its litigation counsel at trial, U.R.I. could not overcome the apparent lack of communication of its intentions and understandings to defendants."circumstances and they continue to believe strongly in United Rentals' future prospects."According to Steven M. Davidoff, a  professor at Wayne State University law school, the case highlights the dangers of ambiguously worded deal contracts."Chandler's opinion is a must-read for all transactional lawyers  —  it is a warning that sloppy drafting and a failure to be forthright in your negotiating can come back to hurt you," Mr. Davidoff said.With just a few weeks to go until Christmas, the sensory onslaught inside   the Times Square Toys "R" Us was well into its merciless ratchet   upward. The infrastructure of aggression — the indoor Ferris wheel, the   roaring animatronic T-rex, the woman who blocks your path as you enter the store   to snap a picture of you that another employee will try to sell to you on your   way out — was augmented by the holiday tension on the ground: mothers on   cellphones, seasonal employees in the store's dark blue shirts pushing   carts full of inventory, children banging away at the sample electronics. It   seemed as loud as a factory floor; but that is only because most of us cannot   imagine how loud a factory floor actually is.Prakash Sethi, though, didn't really see any of it. Instead, standing before a vertiginous wall of toys while shoppers eddied around him, the 73-year-old business-school professor and grandfather saw only what the tens of thousands who march through here every Christmas season fail to see, which is how all these toys came to be here in the first place.He considered an item called the Smart Cycle, a stationary bike for young children that plugs directly into a television and controls the on-screen action. Manufactured by Fisher-Price, a subsidiary of Mattel, it bears on its box a small legend — the company would no doubt make it smaller if it could — that says Made in China. Made how? And by whom? "Have you ever seen an injection-molding machine?" Sethi said. "It could be as big as this whole area. At one end you have a funnel, where you pour in these plastic pellets, about the size of a grain of rice. These are melted and then forced by tons of pressure into carbon-steel molds. The molded plastic is hot, and excess material called flash often has to be cut off by hand with a small sharp tool. Unlike most assembly operations, injection molding invariably runs 24/7, because a machine that makes a product like this one could have cost anywhere from 3 to 10 million dollars new, so you want to make constant use of it."It's impossible to say who made that Smart Cycle. But the profile of an average worker at Mattel's plant in Guanyao, China, for example, is a woman in her 20s who earns $175 a month for a 60-hour week. Having traveled a long way from her rural home, she lives in a company dormitory and eats in a company cafeteria, the costs of which are deducted from her salary. She returns home with the money she saved after no more than two or three years — or much less than that; the yearly turnover at some factories runs as high as 200 percent — "because, let's face it," Sethi said, "these are dead-end jobs." She will also work as much overtime as she can get, routinely more than Chinese law allows, because toy-production cycles are seasonal and tend to end in massive layoffs.The work is hot and loud and exhausting and hazardous and underpaid. But it is also, at least for the 60,000 to 80,000 (or many more, according to Sethi) Chinese factory workers employed directly or indirectly by Mattel, measurably less so than it used to be, and that is in large part the achievement of Sethi himself. A career academic, he is the founder and president of the idealistically named International Center for Corporate Accountability, an operation run out of a two-room faculty office at Baruch College in New York. It may be a reach to style a University Distinguished Professor of Management at Baruch's Zicklin School of Business as a radical, but in that academic context, at least, he's something of a flamethrower. He has suggested that multinational companies with manufacturing bases in China and elsewhere not merely raise the pathetically low wages of their factory employees but also pay them restitution for years past. When asked why more companies don't take steps to monitor wages and working conditions, he once answered "bigotry." This sort of bluntness makes it less than completely surprising that the I.C.C.A. doesn't have a long list of clients for its monitoring services. "I don't work with very many companies," Sethi says equably. "They don't want me."Ten years ago, in the midst of a controversy over conditions inside its factories, Mattel executives tried a novel response to a gadfly like Sethi. They hired him. To this day, Sethi and a handful of associates are personally tasked with monitoring working conditions inside the 13 factories Mattel owns and operates in China (and Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and Mexico) and 20 to 30 others with which Mattel does business. And now — after its recent recall of toys with lead paint and the public-relations beating that followed — Sethi's influence over the way Mattel makes toys is about to increase.If Mattel were simply a greedy or sloppy company that got caught doing something it shouldn't and paid the price, its story, and Sethi's, would be a lot less interesting. But the fact is that Mattel — largely under Sethi's direction — has gone further than any other company to be a good corporate citizen with regard to its Chinese operations. For the last decade its factories have operated under an unparalleled degree of oversight, at least concerning wages and working conditions. And it still wasn't enough. The past several months have provided an object lesson in the inherent limits — its sterner critics would say the fundamental hypocrisy — of Mattel's efforts to lessen the bad side effects of its global search for cheap labor and maximum profit.In 1996, the notion of a "corporate code of conduct" was   not the fashionable idea it is today, but Mattel had been drafting such a set   of ethical principles for more than a year. Sean Fitzgerald, the vice president   of external communications, had been on the job barely a month when the NBC   newsmagazine show "Dateline" broadcast an undercover segment showing   Mattel toys being assembled by under-age workers in an Indonesian factory. Whatever   step Mattel took after that, Fitzgerald says, "needed to mean something.   It needed to be several steps beyond what everyone else was doing." He   started talking to various activist groups inside and outside the business community,   and in the course of his research one name kept coming up.S. Prakash Sethi had spent the previous three decades making a name for himself not only as a star academic and prolific author of books and articles on corporate social responsibility but also as a professor who yearned to get out of the classroom and into the trenches, whether he was invited or not. For six years in the 1980s he traveled to South Africa every two or three months to track various companies' compliance with the Sullivan Principles (the voluntary code of conduct to which a number of United States companies doing business in apartheid-era South Africa pledged themselves). He served as an adviser and expert witness for Alaska in the state's lawsuits against various oil companies after the Exxon Valdez spill and other environmental disasters. Many of his corporate targets have complained to his university employers, figuring, perhaps, that for a business-school professor to criticize business is somehow letting down the side. "They call up the president and ask, 'Why is this guy doing this to us?' " Sethi says. " 'What's in it for him?' They can't get used to the idea that there's nothing in it for me."Raised amid violent ethnic conflict in the part of India that is now Pakistan, Sethi knew nothing about Mattel at all; the father of two boys, he claims not to have known what Barbie even looked like. "They asked me if I could work with them, and I said, 'What do you mean, work with you?' They said, 'We have a problem: we want to make sure that we are doing the right thing, and that the public believes we are doing the right thing.' And they couldn't find anyone else besides me with a market reputation in the codes-of-conduct area. Not that I was doing any business with anybody at that point. For every Mattel there are 60 other toy companies that wouldn't let me get near them."Fitzgerald presented what he called "the concept of Prakash" to the Mattel executives at their corporate headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., and they brought him out for a meeting that led to the establishment of the Mattel Independent Monitoring Council, the precursor to his International Center for Corporate Accountability. (When, several years later, the possibility arose of Sethi and his staff's monitoring other companies as well, everyone involved agreed it would be best to get Mattel's name off the door.) What the council was being asked to monitor was Mattel's adherence to its own "global manufacturing principles" — a two-page pledge consisting mostly of vague ethical declarations to which no one could object, like "facilities must have environmental programs in place to minimize their impact on the environment." For Sethi — who had spent his career publishing books and delivering lectures on corporate morality more or less into a void — this was an almost unbelievable opportunity to carry his ideas inside the walls of a commercial behemoth, one with sales of more than $5 billion a year. "It was totally unprecedented," he says. "Really intoxicating. I was inventing everything as I went along. There just weren't any systems of its kind. Nobody could say, 'It can't be done.' "It took 18 months for Mattel and Sethi to settle on an audit protocol, including a fantastically detailed 75-page checklist for quantifying conditions inside every one of Mattel's factories and vendor plants. A sample entry: "Are eyewash stations and safety showers installed in areas of corrosive material use (e.g., battery servicing areas, cooling towers, storage of corrosive material, electroplating) and in high-volume solvent usage areas (e.g., paint mixing, chemical storage and dispensing, solvent distillation)?" By all accounts, they fought energetically throughout the entire process, but in the end, in return for the promise of restored public trust, Mattel was willing to let Sethi be Sethi. It would be wrong to say he is abrasive — on the contrary, he is chatty and hospitable in person — but he is most certainly unafraid to be abrasive when the situation calls for it. He has no interest in ingratiating himself with those in power. Jim Walter, senior vice president for global product integrity at Mattel, who has been in constant contact with Sethi and his staff for the past seven years, calls him "an appropriately positioned thorn in our side."Says Fitzgerald: "You've got to have a strong sense of self in order to be successful in an endeavor like that. And Prakash has got that going on."Each Mattel factory overseas is audited on a three-year, rotational   basis, but additional, unannounced visits are made to those facilities whose   performance on the regular audit has been particularly poor. Sethi takes at   least two audit trips to China every year, for anywhere from 8 to 16 days at   a time, with a group of experts in various disciplines that is, he says, "90   percent faculty." They include accountants from Global Social Compliance,   who audit factory payrolls, as well as local Chinese translators to help with   the interviews conducted with random workers to make sure that what management   claims it's doing is actually being done."They try to put on as good a face as they can," says H. Jack Shapiro, a retired aerospace engineer who has been a part of almost every Mattel factory audit since the first one was conducted in 1998. (When Shapiro was the head of Baruch's management department, he appointed Sethi to the faculty back in 1982.) "But even if they know you're coming, you're talking about a plant that can have anywhere from 5,000 to 15,000 people working there. They can repaint the safety lines on the floors, but you're not gonna change ground contamination, air contamination, things like that." There is also the issue of workers being coached by their bosses on what answers to give the auditors about wages, working hours and other matters, but, Shapiro says, "the interviewers can pick that up pretty quickly. One time we stopped an audit of a plant because the employees had clearly been coached before we got there. We just quit. Prakash said, 'That's it,' and we went home."The first place Shapiro and his crew go, soon after the team arrives at a factory, is to the roof, to inspect ventilation and other systems; meanwhile, his colleagues inside are interviewing workers, examining payroll records and checking reports on air and water samples and on noise and temperature levels, scrutinizing workers' thumb guards and steel-tipped shoes — everything. A questionnaire, filled out in advance by the factory's managers, is the guide. "If they have told us upfront they have a problem with A or B, and we find that problem, that's O.K.," Sethi says. "We can live with that. We agree on a plan of remediation. But if they say they're in full compliance and we find that they're not, then we go through everything, even if it takes four times longer. The companies begin to realize that it simply doesn't pay to cheat us. That was the first thing we emphasized: you will not be fired for violating the checklist. You will be fired for not being transparent."Resistance can take different forms. On one audit, a Chinese colleague called Sethi's attention to a group of men standing beside a black S.U.V. parked outside the factory. At first Sethi didn't see anything unusual about it. "Where," his colleague asked him rhetorically, "would you see a group of such healthy Chinese men standing around smoking cigarettes and doing nothing?" The intimation was that the men might be the local police sent by someone to intimidate them. (Sethi had been followed in other countries before.) Rather than risk some sort of incident, the rest of the audit was called off, but six months later Sethi returned to the same factory and wasn't bothered.The reports from each of these audits — which can run more than a hundred pages and are posted, together with Mattel's much shorter responses, on the Web sites of Mattel and the International Center for Corporate Accountability — range from complimentary to scathing. Since implementing its global manufacturing principles in 1997, Mattel has dropped several dozen suppliers and licensees for chronic noncompliance; the company budgets about $10 million a year for internal and external monitoring efforts alone. It's a Sisyphean effort, but no one directly involved in the audits seems conflicted about whether or not they have made a difference. "I personally think we've done a lot of good," Shapiro says. "We've made their lives a lot easier. Especially the young women. At one plant we visited, it used to be that if you lived on the sixth floor of their dorm, if you wanted water you had to walk down to the ground level, fill up a bucket, and you dragged this heavy bucket up six flights, and that's how you washed yourself. Now we got them water on the sixth floor."Fitzgerald, who left Mattel in 2000, says: "The changes we made in the living conditions in China were extraordinary. I think you can tell from the passion in my voice that I am very proud of what we accomplished. It was a big damn deal. And without Prakash, it could never have worked."Sethi remembers one epic argument with a factory manager who didn't want to upgrade his filthy dormitory on the grounds that it was built before the company created its global manufacturing principles. In the end, Mattel worked out a deal that resulted in a new dorm, and the manager and Sethi became friends. According to Sethi, the manager said, "Prakash, these workers and the ones after them, they'll never know what a crummy Indian did for them."But the global manufacturing principles are all about protecting workers;   as it developed, there is another constituency whose welfare has been put at   risk by Mattel's operations in China: namely, the consumers who bought   and the children who played with what was made there. In early July, a European   retailer discovered lead paint on some of Mattel's toys; on Aug. 2, Mattel   announced the recall of 83 different toys, a total of 1.5 million items. Twelve   days later, more than 400,000 additional toys were recalled for containing lead-based   paint — together with millions more recalled for the choking   hazard posed by tiny magnets, which had nothing to do with production shortcuts   but were instead caused by flaws in Mattel's own designs. The company   faces at least one class-action lawsuit in the wake of the recall. Not to mention   the questions over how well recalls work anyway; by the reckoning of one child-advocacy   group, only 10 to 30 percent of products nominally affected by a recall actually   wind up being returned."In retrospect," Murray Weidenbaum, a former I.C.C.A. board member, told me, "the mission we were assigned was narrower than perhaps it should have been. We focused on the working conditions, because that was our task, and because critics at the time were focusing on it — child labor, prison labor, all that. It turns out we missed the big picture, which is the nature of the product."In September, Mattel's chairman and chief executive, Robert A. Eckert, apologized to Congress for the lead-paint failures. Two weeks later, Mattel executives apologized to Chinese officials for the same recall. Sethi's opinion of the second apology is one he will express only off the record; he is not an off-the-record kind of guy, but there is always the danger that some intemperate public remark will create visa problems for him and keep him from doing the work he has contracted to do.Apologies notwithstanding, Mattel executives assigned blame for the lead-paint fiasco by doing something Sethi had been unsuccessfully urging them to do for years: they identified the specific plants in China where the violations occurred. The company named seven contractors and subcontractors involved in producing the recalled toys, at least four of which have since had their connections with Mattel severed. The co-owner of one of those factories, Lee Der Industrial — which made Mattel products for more than 15 years — apparently hanged himself inside his plant within days of the announcement."The suppliers have conflicting incentives," says David Vogel, a business professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who writes about corporate social responsibility more skeptically than many. "They want to reduce their costs because they have to keep prices low in order to hold onto the business, but at the same time they have to comply with the standards in order to hold onto the business. The real black box of this issue is, what does it cost the suppliers to comply with these codes, and who bears those costs? We know remarkably little about that."Sethi says he was not surprised by the recalls, though he stops short of criticizing Mattel's conduct in particular. "Empty promises on the part of the multinationals," he e-mailed to me, "lack of transparency as to their conduct and a poor regulatory environment created the environment where the current malaise of substandard and dangerous products is the logical outcome and should have been anticipated." All along, he has judged issues of product safety to lie outside his own jurisdiction; considering the massive ambition of what he already does, it seems ungenerous in the extreme to wonder why he didn't try to intervene more.And so now, as it did 10 years ago, the company finds itself in reactive mode. Just this month, it began talks with Sethi to create a parallel code of conduct governing product safety and integrity, to be monitored by an independent third party that may or may not include Sethi. "It certainly is doable," Shapiro says. "The engineering level is not very high. You've got hundreds of injection-molding machines, a few others — the most sophisticated machine is the one that takes nylon and turns it into hair. But the product coming off the machine is a repetitive product, so to determine whether, say, they use lead-based paint shouldn't be very difficult. I spoke to Prakash about this just the other day. But right now that's not our function."It's a big step forward — or backward, considering that the global manufacturing principles initially outlined by the company back in 1997 included this one: "Product Safety and Product Quality: All Mattel Inc. business partners must share our commitment to product safety and quality and must adhere to those operational and workplace practices that are necessary to meet our stringent safety and quality standards."By the time the principles were "expanded upon" four years later, mention of product safety was gone, and has never been part of any I.C.C.A. audit. A Mattel official told me via e-mail that product safety was never intended to be part of the audit process, but is instead considered a "peer function."Sethi can't remember why the change was originally made but defends it on the grounds that trying to prevent the systematic abuse of many tens of thousands of factory workers was more than enough for the company to concentrate on at that particular moment. "When we started," he says, "this wasn't even an issue. The code was designed to protect the Chinese workers from being exploited. Nobody was thinking about unsafe products. They were thinking about cheap products."Why should Mattel have its own code of conduct at all? In light of the   fact that a plant that produces, say, doll clothes tends to make them for more   than one master, why isn't there one protocol to govern the whole industry?   In fact there is: the International Council of Toy Industries has a code of   conduct called CARE — a clumsy acronym ("Caring, Awareness, Responsible,   Ethical") that reeks of P.R. consciousness. The code is similar to Mattel's   but is not nearly as tough, largely because, says Sethi, it lacks what he considers   the most crucial element — a strong, transparent, third-party monitoring   program. Alan Hassenfeld, the chairman of Hasbro   and the co-chairman of the ICTI CARE foundation, called for a one-code approach   in remarks at a Columbia Business School forum last spring that seemed directed   at Mattel, offering a somewhat tin-eared anecdote about a Chinese factory that   moved the fire extinguishers six inches up and down the walls depending on who   was monitoring its conditions that week — as if the real hardship inside   these factories was an excess of bureaucracy.Eckert pays lip service to the one-code idea, but he would rather see the rest of the industry raise itself to Mattel's standards than lower Mattel to theirs. As for Sethi, he is, not surprisingly, less diplomatic on the subject; he considers industrywide codes a kind of institutionalization of the lowest common denominator — there's no reason, he says, why companies shouldn't compete in the field of ethics as they do in everything else.And his caustic tone when he discusses Hasbro in particular suggests something deeper than a simple analysis of two rival businesses: in a word, loyalty. His unwillingness to criticize Mattel — or, at most, to couch criticism of it in terms of multinational corporations generally — is almost touching. In fact, in an essay in this month's issue of Ethical Corporation, Sethi goes so far as to blame other toy companies for Mattel's recent recall woes, saying that if every company employing a given vendor demanded the same level of transparency that Mattel does, the vendor never would have tried to cut corners to begin with, for fear of going out of business entirely.Mattel does pay for Sethi's work; more specifically, the company helps finance the International Center for Corporate Accountability, which then pays Sethi and his colleagues to avoid the appearance of quid pro quo. (Until last month, financing also came from I.C.C.A.'s one other regular client, the mining giant Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold, with which its relationship became contentious. And just this month the center signed an agreement to help create a code of conduct governing the licensees making products for Sesame Street — "but that will be a very nominal amount of income for us," Sethi says, "because they are as poor as we are.") The payments are always minimal: in Mattel's case, expenses plus about $2,000 a day for each day in China, or $250 an hour, which is, according to Sethi, about half of what he charges for more traditional consulting work. He has been accused before, he says, of having his loyalty to Mattel bought and paid for; his answer has been that anyone who thinks he could be bought as cheaply as that must not have a very high opinion of him.To spend even an hour with Sethi is to know that he could never be bought for any price. But in another way, more psychological than material, Mattel has indeed turned him from a potential critic into a public cheerleader. The monitoring program associated with the company's global manufacturing principles is the ultimate field test for Sethi. It is his own philosophy made flesh. He has a tremendous emotional stake in Mattel's being perceived as a success; and as a result, he seems almost incapable of publicly criticizing its actions.Not that this kind of psychoanalytic reading escapes him. "I am favorably disposed toward Mattel," Sethi says. "No question about it. I'm not apologetic about it. Because I feel Mattel has taken the initiative and done business under more stringent conditions than anybody required of them. I think their credibility in this area is well deserved. The other area, we have never worked with them on it. If there were lapses, I don't know. But I would like to think that a company that holds itself to high standards in areas that are strictly voluntary — why wouldn't they do things with the same degree of seriousness in an area where there is tremendous financial risk?"What should we expect, in the moral realm, from the conduct of multinational   corporations, in China or elsewhere? Corporate social responsibility, which   was a fringe movement when Sethi published his seminal textbook "Up Against   the Corporate Wall" in 1971, has moved into the business mainstream. More   than 3,600 businesses have signed onto the United   Nations Global Compact, the largest voluntary corporate social-responsibility   initiative in the world, which Sethi serves as senior policy adviser (and which   he has described, with characteristic tact, as "a mile wide and half an   inch deep"). According to a poll by Nima Hunter, a marketing research   firm, 91 percent of chief executives believe that a good corporate social-responsibility   program creates shareholder value.Which is interesting, because there isn't a great deal of evidence that that's true. So-called socially responsible investing firms are more and more in vogue but still account for only about 2 percent of total assets in mutual funds in the United States. And you need look no further than Mattel itself — a company with one of the highest corporate social-responsibility profiles in the world — to see that there's a limit to what it can protect you from in terms of lawsuits, regulatory threats, brand loyalty or unfavorable press. "They got no positive press coverage in any of the lead-paint stories for their strong performance on labor standards," Vogel says. "C.S.R. doesn't buy you much credit when things go wrong."In many ways, the corporate social-responsibility model depends less on cost-benefit analysis than on a sort of monarchical enlightenment at the top; even inside Mattel, in fact, there was a moment when the entire edifice that Sethi had built was in danger of being axed by one man. Three years after the global manufacturing principles were instituted under the regime of the chairwoman and chief executive, Jill E. Barad, she was forced to resign when her $3.8 billion acquisition of the Learning Company failed to pay off. When Eckert took over, Mattel was losing about a million dollars in cash a day, and to a new executive team in full cost-cutting mode, what could look riper for elimination than an expensive monitoring program that none of Mattel's competitors even bothered with? "We had a pretty frank discussion about it," Eckert admits; but in the end he chose to keep it going. "We want to be contributing to the development of these societies," he told me, "not merely taking advantage of the fact that they're not as developed as we are."There will always be those who consider big business's vows to make the world a better place fundamentally cynical. But capitalism has often longed for, if not technically required, a moral justification, and for most of the 20th century it was provided by socialism and the various forms of government representing it. Now that opposition is gone, and in search of a nonmaterial rationale, the lords of acquisition have to look elsewhere. The sense of moral aspiration behind corporate social responsibility seems mostly genuine — which is somehow both the most and least appealing thing about it, for it encourages a lot of back-patting among the world's economic elite, whose members seem able to discern, in their own hunt for the cheapest possible work force, a humanitarian aim."I know we have brought a lot of modernity to that part of the world," Hassenfeld told the audience at that Columbia forum. He said Japan, Korea and Taiwan "exploded" when Hasbro was manufacturing there, adding, "We had to be doing something right." As for the ICTI CARE code, which now governs the welfare of almost a million Chinese workers inside 1,461 factories, he said: "We're an industry-driven code. It's the old 'fox guarding the henhouse.' . . . But I made an agreement and shook hands that no matter what we found, we would try and remediate that factory. Be a teacher."When I relayed the gist of these remarks to Sethi, he smiled angrily and shook his head. "That's why I don't get invited to those things," he said.Harold J. Leavitt, an author and management expert who advocated a more democratic approach to organizational decision-making but who also concluded that people in large groups  work best through a chain of command, died on Dec. 8 in Pasadena, Calif. He was 85.The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said.Dr. Leavitt, a longtime business professor at Stanford University, wrote about his theories in lively articles and books, including "Managerial Psychology" (1958), a textbook  still  used almost 50 years after it was first published.Dr. Leavitt devoted much of his research to studying the dynamics of group decision-making but  found that hierarchical structures were unavoidable and probably necessary, though certainly not benign."They breed infantilizing dependency, distrust, conflict, toadying, territoriality, distorted communication and most of the other human ailments that plague every large organization," he wrote in 2005.Yet despite their failings, he concluded that hierarchy remained "the best method ever invented for solving large, complicated problems."In the late 1940s, while a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. Leavitt helped organize and conduct experiments that revealed how small groups can reach rapid consensus in making decisions. The experiments placed five or so participants in a room, divided them into carrels and forbade them to speak to one another. They were allowed to pass notes, but with restrictions. Participant A, for example, could pass a note to Participant B, and perhaps to C, but not to D or E.Dr. Leavitt found that when the decision to be made was of a simple nature, a highly structured system of communication within the group proved effective in getting something done. When the matter was more complex, however, he found that a freer flow of communication led to a more satisfactory outcome. The findings were described in "Managerial Psychology."Warren G. Bennis, a professor of business administration at the University of Southern California, said Dr. Leavitt's research was "beautifully inventive" and showed that a more democratic approach to communications were more likely to result in correct decisions, faster decision-making and better group morale.Dr. Leavitt also studied how loose, internal social networks affect corporations. He returned to such studies in the 1990s, when he examined the dynamics of small groups within large ones, this time to demonstrate how energetic, idealistic elites can, for a short time, influence an entire organization.He called these elites "hot groups," and explained the phenomenon in a book, "Hot Groups: Seeding Them, Feeding Them, and Using Them to Ignite Your Organization" (1999), written with his wife, Jean Lipman-Blumen, a sociologist.Dr. Leavitt said such groups were usually "embattled enclaves" in which members felt connected by an intense sense of purpose. He found that they brought superior speed and innovation to bear on an organization's problems but that were short-lived. Frequently they were  dismissed by  the corporate hierarchy.The challenge for company leaders is to recognize and harness a hot group's energy before it dissipates, Dr. Leavitt and Dr. Lipman-Blumen wrote.Harold Jack Leavitt was born in Lynn, Mass. He graduated from Harvard and received a master's degree from Brown before earning his doctorate in industrial economics from M.I.T. in 1949.After teaching at the University of Chicago and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Dr. Leavitt joined Carnegie Mellon University as a professor of industrial administration in 1958. He was named a professor of organizational behavior at Stanford in 1966, and remained there until retiring in 1987.Dr. Leavitt is survived by his wife, Dr. Lipman-Blumen, who is a professor of organizational behavior at Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, Calif. His first wife, Gloria R. Leavitt, died in 1985.He is also survived by a daughter, Emily of San Francisco; two sons, John, an anthropologist, of Montreal, and David, a novelist and short-story writer, of Gainesville, Fla.; a sister, Helen Fox of Hallandale, Fla.; and nine grandchildren.My philanthropic tour of Minneapolis began on the banks of the Mississippi River, where the Great Northern Railroad once transported flour from the giant mills of General Mills and Pillsbury. The Great Northern is long gone — merged into the Burlington Northern almost 40 years ago, and though the mills are still standing, they have long since been converted to other uses, as General Mills moved to the suburbs, and, in time, acquired its rival Pillsbury.Bill King, the head of the Minnesota Council on Foundations — and my tour guide — pointed out the mills as we got into our car. As well he should have. One  lasting legacy of the Great Northern is the Northwest Area Foundation, which was founded by James J. Hill, the Great Northern's founder. As of March 2007, it had $500 million in assets and is devoted primarily to antipoverty efforts. Indeed, Minneapolis and St. Paul have an abundance of foundations that were started by the founders or top executives of many of its biggest companies, like 3M and Target.General Mills, meanwhile, was an early member of an organization begun in the mid-1970s called the Five Percent Club — in which Minneapolis-St. Paul corporations agreed to set aside 5 percent of their pretax income for philanthropy. Believe it or not — and it is a little hard to believe, given the modern emphasis on maximizing profits and pleasing Wall Street — the club still exists. Now known as the Keystone Club, it has 214 members, and 134 of them donate at the 5 percent level. (The others give away 2 percent of their profits.) Last year, General Mills donated more than $57 million, second only to Target, which gave away nearly $160 million."Here's the new Guthrie," said Mr. King as we began the tour. The Guthrie Theater, the city's fine regional theater, recently moved into a sparkling new building by the river — one of five major arts organizations that have recently built new buildings or major additions. All of them were built, in no small part, with corporate contributions.We drove a little farther. "This is where the bridge collapsed," he said, pointing directly in front of us. He was speaking, of course, of the Interstate 35W bridge, which collapsed in August. "When it fell, there was an immediate response from corporations," Mr. King continued. "And a fund for victims was set up by the Minneapolis and St. Paul Foundations." The latter groups solicit donations from local people who want to be involved in philanthropy but lack the means to set up their own foundations. Combined, the two foundations have over $1.5 billion in assets and are major forces in the Twin Cities.We headed north. "North Minneapolis has long been a low-income neighborhood," Mr. King said. "We have had wonderful success over all as a community, but we still have lots of problems. But we keep working at it."We drove past a storefront that said, in bright lettering, "The Cookie Cart." "This is a cookie business that is run by kids in the community," Mr. King said. "It helps them learn skills that can really be useful. It has been around for 10 or 15 years."  Among the companies backing it are Wells Fargo, U.S. Bancorp and The Star Tribune. As we neared a school, Mr. King told me about a Medtronics-funded program that began years ago as a $75,000 pilot program to help children get interested in science. The company now spends more than a $1 million a year on it. And on, and on.We drove under a walking bridge, the Irene Hixon Whitney Bridge, built with donations from the Whitney family and others. In a neighborhood called Hawthorne, Mr. King explained that in 1996, after The New York Times noted that some people were calling Minneapolis "Murderapolis," General Mills began investing in the neighborhood, with redevelopment and other efforts, including something called the Hawthorne Huddle, a monthly meeting that brought together residents and city officials to hash out solutions to problems.Ask anybody in the world of corporate philanthropy and they'll tell you: Minneapolis-St. Paul is like no place else, a bastion of giving in an age when most companies are cutting back. "It is an unusual city in regards to corporate giving," said former Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich. In the 1970s, John D. Rockefeller III said in a speech to the Minneapolis Chamber of Commerce that he had heard so much about "the public spirit of its business community, about your remarkable Five Percent Club that I feel a bit like Dorothy in the Land of Oz. I had to come to the Emerald City myself to see if it really exists."So did I. And sure enough, it does exist. But why here?If you put this question to people in Minneapolis, you hear all kinds of theories. "When you live in such a harsh climate, you understand the need for the common good," said Emmett D. Carson, the former president of the Minneapolis Foundation. Others suggested that the area's corporate generosity grew out of the Scandinavian culture that took hold in this region, with its deep Lutheran roots.Christina L. Shea, the senior vice president for external relations at General Mills, thought it had to do with enlightened self-interest. "How do you attract high-powered talent?" she asked. A large part of the answer, she believed, had to do with building communities in which talented people wanted to live. Steve Rothschild, a former General Mills executive who left the company to found an antipoverty group called Twin Cities Rise, said he thought that Minneapolis-St. Paul companies have long viewed their responsibilities broadly. "Most Twin Cities companies have a stakeholder model, not a shareholder model," he said. There is probably some truth to all of these theories.The creator of the Five Percent Club was a man named Kenneth N. Dayton, a member of the third generation of Daytons to run the Dayton Corporation, which was then mainly a department store in Minneapolis. (As it grew, it changed its name, first to Dayton-Hudson, and more recently, to Target.)"It comes from the concept of tithing, which is something he totally believed in," said Peter C. Hutchinson, who ran the Dayton Foundation for many years. The company had long given away 5 percent of its profits; Mr. Dayton's purpose in starting the Five Percent Club was to both institutionalize the practice and persuade others to join in.To that end, he hired Wayne Thompson to be the company's — and perhaps the country's — first executive in charge of "corporate affairs." Mr. Thompson and Mr. Dayton became the ringleaders in rounding up other companies for the Five Percent Club, and in 1976, they expanded it to include companies that wanted to donate 2 percent. "Never resist a generous impulse," was Mr. Thompson's rationale for allowing the 2 percenters to join.The result was that philanthropy — and especially philanthropy aimed at helping Minneapolis and St. Paul — became part of the culture of Twin Cities corporate life. Nate Garvis, the vice president for government affairs at Target, says that executives are expected to join nonprofit boards and serve in the communities. Mr. Rothschild, the former General Mills executive, says that at many companies, including his, a portion of an executive's bonus was based on community involvement.When a new chief executive came to town, other chief executives would sit him down and explain how things were done in the Twin Cities. In 1988 when the British firm Grand Metropolitan bought Pillsbury in a $5 billion hostile takeover, people worried that  raiders from overseas would cut back on the company's giving, which was at the 2 percent level. Instead, the city's corporate leaders met with the Grand Met representatives, where, in Mr. King's words, "they explained what our culture was." Pillsbury remained in the Keystone Club.Even more famous was an incident in 1987, when the Haft family made a hostile run at Dayton-Hudson. The Hafts were well-known corporate raiders, highly unlikely to have much sympathy for the idea of giving away 5 percent of a company's profits.Mr. Hutchison recalls attending a meeting of the leaders of the nonprofit community, which had long been the beneficiaries of the company's generosity. They were outraged — and helped lobby the legislature to pass a law that allowed Minnesota companies to consider the interests of all stakeholders, not just shareholders, in deciding whether to accept a hostile takeover bid. The legislation passed, and after the stock market crash of 1987, the Hafts went away.Today, of course, the primacy of "shareholder value" is far more widely accepted than it was in the 1980s. Yet the Minneapolis-St. Paul companies, 19 of which are in the Fortune 500, have managed to resist the tide. Which is not to say their philanthropy hasn't changed. As the companies have gotten more national in scope, their philanthropy has become more national. And in truth, much of it has become more aligned with business goals.At General Mills, for instance, Ms. Shea told me that 50 percent of the company's donations go to what she called "strategic philanthropy." She described a program that gives money to schools by having kids buy Cheerios and bring in a coupon attached to the box. At Target, Mr. Garvis said that much of the company's philanthropy had become "guest-centric." ("Guest" is Target-speak for "customer.") "We want to be engaged in activities they care about." Even so, he said, the company makes contributions in Minneapolis-St. Paul that are far in excess of its size as a Target market.Normally, as I near the end of a column like this one, I would throw in a note of skepticism about this increase of strategic philanthropy, and wonder whether too much of it is really about public relations. And I would probably grapple with the argument long made by the likes of Milton Friedman, who believed that corporations had no business giving their shareholders' money away, even for the best of causes.But not this week. This Saturday, let's simply be thankful for what Ken Dayton wrought. Let's applaud corporate generosity, no matter what the rationale.Merry Christmas.Last week, Denzel Washington and Harvey Weinstein were hosts for the New York premiere of "The Great Debaters" at the Ziegfeld Theater in Manhattan. Set to go into wide release on Christmas Day, "The Great Debaters" traces the mostly true story of the debate team of tiny Wiley College. It was led by a charismatic professor named Melvin B. Tolson, played by Mr. Washington, who also directed the film.Near the beginning of the movie, Mr. Tolson surveys his classroom charges at an all-black college in the Jim Crow South and uses a line from  Langston Hughes to remind them that their time to compete and win against their supposed betters was at hand."I, too, am America. I. Too. Am. America."As I sat in the theater listening to the cadence and the meaning the words carried, there was an echo of something else I had heard recently. And then I checked something on YouTube at http://youtube.com/watch?v=_QJJOtT32C0 and heard Oprah Winfrey introducing — and heartily endorsing — Senator Barack Obama to Iowans on Dec. 8."When you strip us all down, we are American at our core. We are America. We are America with our hopes and our dreams. ..."The intersection of language and sentiment comes directly from the hymnal of Ms. Winfrey's secular religion, the church of bootstrapped uplift that is "Oprah" with services every weekday. Ms. Winfrey owned the rights to the story of the Wiley college debate team and for 10 years, Harpo Films has been working to make the film, which she also produced.And if it sounds vaguely like an infomercial for Mr. Obama's surging candidacy, well, so much the better. "She literally talked about stepping out of her pew to endorse him," said Lester K. Spence, an assistant professor of political science at Johns Hopkins University. "When she steps into the world of politics, a world she has always been above, and anoints someone, it is coming from someone that millions of people, especially women, trust and revere."Ms. Winfrey's support of Mr. Obama — she has held fund-raisers and arranged several large rallies — has been written off in some political circles as one more meaningless celebrity endorsement. But it is far from meaningless. Hers could be the first such endorsement to have an impact on national politics, and it also carries considerable risks. Politics may seem like one more extension of Ms. Winfrey's vast franchise, but it is a more complicated business.  Ms. Winfrey and Mr. Obama have deep connections: both came of age professionally and personally in Chicago during the 1980s, when she was the host of a local talk show (eventually syndicated) and he was a community organizer who hadn't yet entered politics. They both learned to reach an accommodation with all manner of people and in time arrived at a kind of common language that has taken them to the national stage.During the early 1990s, when both television talk and the culture at large was heading down a road that led inexorably this week to the pregnancy of Britney Spears's baby sister, Ms. Winfrey hung a right. Banking her franchise on the durable virtues of decency, hard work and self-improvement, she found a bigger audience — eight million a day — and turned herself from a multimillionaire into a billionaire.And she was able to do so while transcending not only the issue of race, but traditional publishing economics. I covered the magazine industry when Ms. Winfrey introduced O, the Oprah Magazine and that world has never seen the likes of it. In a business where most magazines might sneak a young black model onto the cover of a thin August issue, O features a woman who is black, over the age of 50, and in no danger of keeling over from anorexia on every issue and reaches more than 2.5 million readers.Popular culture often bushwhacks a trail that politics then follows. Think of Ronald Reagan's version of America — or rather, America finding a version of themselves in the image he projected in 1980 or the stage management of Bill Clinton's campaign by  the television producers, Harry Thomason and Linda Bloodworth-Thomason, in 1992.What works for Oprah the inspiring talk-show host, however, may not work for Oprah the political player. On her show, Oprah slides with ease between church lady and homegirl with a quick flourish of putting a hand on the hip. On the stump, she admitted to nervousness, and it showed. Her lexicon of hope and community always seems fresh when she is on home court, but those same words, shouted out over huge crowds in Des Moines and Columbia, S.C., sounded far more common and somehow muddied by their deployment on behalf of a candidate.She is, without a doubt, the most powerful endorsement in pop culture. Her book club can turn obscure novels into immediate hits, and anything she endorses on her annual "Favorite Things" show becomes impossible to find. But that's because in her contract with her audience, she never has a piece of what she is pushing. Her interest is your interest because she is not for sale.After her endorsement of Mr. Obama, however, the message boards on Oprah.com are alive with allegations of "betrayal" and "sellout."  Mr. Obama's base may have been engaged, but part of Ms. Winfrey's base is livid.Some other cross-over figures have avoided stepping into the breach for that very reason. Michael Jordan memorably stayed above the political fray because "Republicans buy sneakers, too." Cynical? Sure. But lots of Republicans (along with Hillary Rodham Clinton and John Edwards supporters) buy Oprah, too. For the time being, most of the push-back seems small, confined to her message boards.But Ms. Winfrey's position above the fray, above common human argument, is now on the table. Mr. Obama has plenty to gain from her support, but she has plenty to lose. If her television show and her magazine start to be seen as a political statement, market forces may cast some votes of their own. That, too, is America.
