NOT everyone is going to the beach, lake or mountains this summer. An increasing number of people are choosing to take what AARP the Magazine  calls virtuous vacations — trips spent working for a nonprofit group.In a series of articles, the magazine offers a lists of volunteer options, like teaching English in a foreign country or taking care of orphaned animals in Utah.While the experiences of the volunteers are vivid —one who cared for injured and abandoned monkeys in Kruger Park in South Africa said  that among other things the animals "throw up on you just like little kids. But it is fun" — the real value is in the related article that lets you know what to expect, if you are interested in helping out."Typically, you'll work most of the day, although evenings will be free," Susan Skog writes.Lodgings will be fairly basic as a rule, "expect fairly spartan accommodations," and you can expect to pay for the privilege of working free."Most of these groups receive no outside funding," Ms. Skog writes. "They rely totally on the program fees paid by volunteers."VACATION: GEEK Wired creates a list of "the best geek destinations."Among the eight places singled out by Christopher Null:¶Mauna Kea Observatory. "Hawaii doesn't have to be about boring activities like lying on the beach sipping mai tais." Instead, he suggests renting a 4x4 for the 14,000-foot  climb to visit "one of the most striking observatories on Earth." Another recommendation is to stop at the visitors' center "where you can view sunspots during daylight."¶The South Pole. The trip could cost around $5,000 and it will be negative 76 degrees Fahrenheit if you go in winter, but a cruise around Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station will "warm any geek's heart."¶The Sidi Driss Hotel in Matmata, Tunisia. "Welcome to the underground dwellings that were Luke Skywalker's Tatooine home in "Star Wars."¶Palo Alto, Calif. This is Silicon Valley's "ground zero within spitting distance of the most influential tech companies from Apple to Yahoo." Other attractions include "gawking at the famous Hewlett-Packard garage, touring the Tech Museum of Innovation in San Jose and sneaking into the Google cafeteria."VACATION: WEIRD. "Quit whining that you have nowhere to go this summer," writes Stephanie Norris in Boating. "Hop aboard and celebrate weird waterside America."Among her suggestions for boat travelers are the Jell-O Museum in Le Roy, N.Y.; Stark's Vacuum Cleaner Museum in Portland, Ore.; and John Milkovisch's Beer Can House in Houston.FLYING HIGH Once you own a private jet, you need to furnish it of course. The Robb Report details for you what others have done, to give you an idea of the way you might want to go."Somewhere in the world, a Boeing jet flies with a throne in its center," Michael Schulze writes. In other private planes you "might find a dance floor, an exercise room, a waterfall, a car garage, a horse stable, a whirlpool bath, or even a medical room in which a surgeon can perform open-heart surgery (although this is best conducted on the ground.")These amenities do not come from the plane's manufacturers. They deliver the aircraft in "green condition — so named because the empty interiors typically receive a coat of green primer pant" and it is up to the buyer to decorate."The process can take more than two years and cost from $25 million to as much as $150 million," Mr. Schulze writes, and that is, of course, on top of the cost of the plane itself.How much are the planes? Well, if you have to ask, you probably can't afford it. About $50 million buys you a narrow-body Boeing Business Jet II. For $300 million you can order an Airbus A380, "the largest passenger plane in history," which has yet to reach customers.FINAL TAKE "Getting outside for at least 30 minutes a day when the weather is warm and sunny can improve mood, memory and promote creative thinking," Metropolitan Home writes, citing research done at the University of Michigan."If you do it on a bike, you can also burn 260 calories." PAUL B. BROWNMY twins were nearing their first birthday last summer when a friend called. Did I want a part-time job as communications director at a not-for-profit organization?Although I love my career as a full-time freelance writer, the offer caught me at a weak moment. Day care bills were costing more than our mortgage, and the feast-or-famine economics of self-employment weren't working so well anymore.Even with the superhuman support of my husband, the competing crises of my small business and even smaller sons made my life feel like a double episode of "24," except that instead of Jack Bauer, the hero was me, armed with a breast pump.Maybe a part-time job, I thought, would solve my problems. After all, isn't meaningful part-time work one of those "on ramps"  that the  economist (and mother of twins) Sylvia Ann Hewlett advocates to help curb the female brain drain?If figured that if I worked 10 to 15 hours a week in the office, and another 10 to 15 hours on a few choice freelance assignments,  I could earn as much as I did writing full time,  smoothing out our cash flow. Meanwhile, I'd finesse the raging public debate over how mothers today should spend their time: I'd have more hours with the boys and I'd be working.So last year, I became one of some six million moms  — about a quarter  of all working mothers —  who work a reduced schedule. According to a new study from the Pew Research Center, an even bigger number  — 60 percent of employed women raising children  — think that part-time work is the best choice. Can that many working moms be wrong?In my own study, with a sample of one, I found that part-time work was not the answer. Although I liked the work and enjoyed my colleagues, I  realized that Jack Bauer could never do his job part time, and it wasn't a perfect strategy for me, either.SURPRISE NO. 1 Crises require flexibility — and part-time jobs can be a lot less flexible than full-time jobs. Even if Jack Bauer spends an hour rescuing his wife or daughter or nephew from terrorists, he still has 23 other hours to find the bomb, recover the detonator and save the world. If he were working a reduced schedule, it would be the nephew or the detonator.In my case, I worked on Mondays and Wednesdays. If I missed a day because of a sick child, an absent baby sitter, a doctor's appointment or even a national holiday, I was suddenly missing half my week (not to mention half  my pay). Sure, I could make it up on another day — if I could get child care. But, at least in Sacramento, where I live, you can't just send your children to day care on a Thursday instead of a Wednesday.Part-time nannies don't solve the problem, either; they're usually booked on their days off. When I worked a full schedule, I also had backup care problems, but I could always make up the work somewhere. So in my case, at least, full-time work seemed better suited to the emergencies of a working mother's life.SURPRISE NO. 2 The sheet-protector problem. Jack Bauer always knows where everything is. He's got a nifty  drawer in the back of his S.U.V. with an assortment of automatic weapons, hand grenades and tiny two-way radios, all neatly fitted into their own molded compartments.I, on the other hand, never learned where all the office supplies were, even after a year of part-time work. At least once a week, I methodically opened one cupboard after another, looking for a tape measure, a sheet protector or the right size of  envelope. It was clear that I wasn't building those small, unconscious office habits that make work easier.And if I couldn't remember where the sheet protectors were, what other important facts or habits were no longer at my fingertips? Friends who are part-timers   tell me that their reduced schedules make them more productive. In my case, any gains were offset by the time I lost rummaging through physical or mental supply closets.SURPRISE NO. 3 Every day was Monday. My part-time life felt like a perpetual series of jump-starts and halts, a kind of gas-stop-gas-stop cab ride. I'd work most of the day on Monday, forget all about the office on  Tuesday, then spend Wednesday morning regrouping. A blank slate is great — unless it's where you keep your to-do list.Until every day became a Monday, I never realized how much of my ability to perform at a high level — to juggle multiple tasks, track deadlines, stay in flow and keep all clients happy  — depended on my physical presence, day after day, working in the same place, on the same computer, on the same problems.When I took the job, it seemed a fair deal to sell the organization two days a week of my services. But before long, I felt as if I'd sold them the services of someone who wasn't quite me, someone who needed to look at the manual to defuse the bomb and wasn't always around to watch her colleagues' backs.It  made me feel only worse to know that the organization was making extraordinary efforts to keep me. It clearly irked my boss when I wasn't around when she needed me, and she never could quite keep straight which days I was in the office. Still, she helped me delegate, gave me a raise and even considered hiring a second part-timer to share my job.The tensions finally took their toll. I consistently put in extra hours; the office consistently scheduled meetings outside my allotted time. Then, one week, I realized that it was taking a full-time mental effort to make the part-time job work, and that  I would rather put in longer hours at something I loved — my writing — than shorter hours at something I only liked.So, I'm leaving the office and returning to a 40-hour-week of self-employment. Because, just like Jack Bauer, I'd really like to save my family and the world — and, at least for me, that's a full-time gig.Forget advanced degrees, spending 10 years learning the ropes and reading all those books about how to start a business. What you really need to do, in order to be a successful entrepreneur, is have a child. (Or two.)That, in over-simplified form, is the takeaway message from "The ParentPreneur Edge," by Julie Lenzer Kirk (Wiley, $24.95).The analogy between starting a business and becoming a parent is not new. But the surface parallels are striking. In both cases, no experience is necessary, an understanding of psychology is vital and if things go well, you are hoping to leave a legacy.But Ms. Kirk says there are five specific traits you need to succeed at either endeavor:1. Resourcefulness. Every small business and/or child is unique. You need to figure out on a case-by-case basis how to nurture them.2. Perseverance. Things don't always go well initially. 3. Patience. Everything always seems to take longer than you would like.4. Passion. You absolutely need to want the best for your business and your children.5. Vision. Goals are good.MINI-MOGULS One of the hardest things to do is explain to a younger child what it is you do for a living.To give them an idea — without boring them to tears — have them click on "Hot Shot Business," spapps.go.com/hsb4/landing/ where they will have a chance to be (virtual) entrepreneurs themselves.The game, created by the Kauffman Foundation, which promotes entrepreneurship, and Disney, let's them start a business they'll be able to relate to — for example, they can open a candy shop, pet spa or landscaping service — and forces them to consider basic business choices like should they self-finance or get a bank loan.The game is capitalism at its finest. As one of the animated guides explains: "work hard; be smart; make a fortune."PAGING DR. FREUD Of course, you could end up working for you son or daughter entrepreneur, as Fortune points out.William H. Gates Sr., a lawyer, is co-chairman of his son's foundation. Carmine Coppola, "the Julliard-trained apprentice of Toscanini," has scored some of Francis Ford Coppola's films. And G. Harry Huizenga, after retiring from the construction business, "oversaw real estate for his son H. Wayne Huizenga's company, Blockbuster Entertainment."OUT, OUT I.T. Today, you can outsource everything from your payroll to your secretarial help.If you thinking of having someone else handle your information technology, Douglas J. Erwin, chairman and chief executive of the privately held company, The Planet, which says it has more than 22,000 small- and medium-size businesses as clients and 2.8 million Web sites worldwide, answer three frequently asked questions:1. How much? "Small businesses can lease a server for as little at $69 a month," Mr. Erwin said. "They also have the ability to add servers, and upgrade to more powerful servers, equipment and enhanced support on demand."2. Is it seamless? That is, will a customer know that the I.T. is being handled by someone else?"Outsourced I.T. infrastructure can deliver a customer experience that is far better than a small business can manage in house," he said.3. Is there a rule of thumb to follow that says, if I am under $X in revenues and/or Y # of employees, I should outsource. If I am over either number could I  handle it myself?"The majority of customers who use the services of The Planet are small businesses with fewer than five servers — and many with just one."LAST CALL This may be of some solace the next time you check your e-mail only to be overwhelmed by all the messages marked urgent.Half of all small-business owners receive 21 business-related e-mails a day, with 16 percent saying they receive 51 or more, according to SurePayroll, an online payroll provider, which took a random survey of 241 of its small-business customers.Among the other findings:•Some 64 percent of respondents said they used more than one e-mail address, and nearly a third use three or more addresses.•More than 25 percent check e-mail more than 20 times a day.•More than 50 percent spend about one to two hours reading or writing e-mail on a daily basis.There was no mention of many e-mails these small-business owners received from former Nigerian foreign ministers looking for someone to help them stash a fortune.PeopleCredit Suisse Group has named Stephan Kiratsous, who formerly worked at HSBC Holdings, to help oversee the team that advises insurance companies in the Americas.The Bank of America Corporation, has named Derek Dillon and Doug Baird to lead the equity capital markets, succeeding Ciaran O'Kelly, who was promoted last month. Mr. Dillon, 38, was head of convertible capital markets. Mr. Baird, 45, was the co-head of equity capital markets at Deutsche Bank.Barclays, the British bank, has named Aurelia Lamorre-Cargill as head of European fixed-income structuring and managing director at its securities unit. She was a managing director at Deutsche Bank's strategic solutions unitDeutsche Bank has appointed Chew Soon Gek as chief investment officer in Asia for its private wealth management division. Ms. Chew, who joined Deutsche Bank last month, was previously the Asian chief investment officer at ING private bank in SingaporeJefferies Group Inc., the investment bank, has hired seven executives from KPMG International to its Frankfurt office. Richard Markus and Warren Scott will be managing directors and heads of investment banking in Germany. The bank also hired Martina Ecker, Alexander Muller and Peter Beusch as managing directors, along with  Christian Muthler and Matthias Eisfeld as directors. All join from KPMG.Robert E. Falb, Richard B. Nettler, Keith R. Styles and Barbara Wachter Needle have joined the Washington office of Arent Fox as partners. These lawyers comprised the Washington real estate and business practice of Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi.SkyBridge Capital,  has hired Scott Prince, a former partner at Eton Park Capital Management and Goldman Sachs, as a managing partner. Evan Wein, a former managing director at Merrill Lynch and the founder of two money management firms, will become a senior partner.PeopleCredit Suisse Group has named Stephan Kiratsous, who formerly worked at HSBC Holdings, to help oversee the team that advises insurance companies in the Americas.The Bank of America Corporation, has named Derek Dillon and Doug Baird to lead the equity capital markets, succeeding Ciaran O'Kelly, who was promoted last month. Mr. Dillon, 38, was head of convertible capital markets. Mr. Baird, 45, was the co-head of equity capital markets at Deutsche Bank.Barclays, the British bank, has named Aurelia Lamorre-Cargill as head of European fixed-income structuring and managing director at its securities unit. She was a managing director at Deutsche Bank's strategic solutions unitDeutsche Bank has appointed Chew Soon Gek as chief investment officer in Asia for its private wealth management division. Ms. Chew, who joined Deutsche Bank last month, was previously the Asian chief investment officer at ING private bank in SingaporeJefferies Group Inc., the investment bank, has hired seven executives from KPMG International to its Frankfurt office. Richard Markus and Warren Scott will be managing directors and heads of investment banking in Germany. The bank also hired Martina Ecker, Alexander Muller and Peter Beusch as managing directors, along with  Christian Muthler and Matthias Eisfeld as directors. All join from KPMG.Robert E. Falb, Richard B. Nettler, Keith R. Styles and Barbara Wachter Needle have joined the Washington office of Arent Fox as partners. These lawyers comprised the Washington real estate and business practice of Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi.SkyBridge Capital,  has hired Scott Prince, a former partner at Eton Park Capital Management and Goldman Sachs, as a managing partner. Evan Wein, a former managing director at Merrill Lynch and the founder of two money management firms, will become a senior partner.Retailers are starting to feel the effects of the housing slump, with two  big-name merchants announcing yesterday that they were cutting back  their forecasts for profit over the next few months as sales of home improvement items fall and consumer confidence weakens.Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement store, and Sears Holdings, the biggest  department store company in the country, said they expected  second-quarter net income to drop far more than they anticipated just two months ago.Home Depot, based in Atlanta, said its earnings per share would  decline by 15  to 18 percent for the fiscal year. In May, the company estimated a 9 percent decline, but that was before it announced the sale of its contractor supply company, HD Supply.Sears, which also runs Kmart, has been recording shrinking sales since it united with the struggling discount chain in 2005. The company, based in Hoffman Estates, Ill., said it expected net income  to be $160 million to $200 million. In the corresponding period last year,  net income was $294 million.Home Depot blamed a weakening housing market and the sale of its contractor  unit. Sears  acknowledged that  it needed "to become more relevant" to its customers and to do more to control its costs. Analysts said both companies were the victims of the sluggish housing industry."Consumers have the money in their pockets, but they are just not spending it," said Markus Schomer, a global economic strategist at AIG Investments, "because they see the negative headlines about the housing market, and they are scared."Mr. Schomer said the climate was "supportive for a robust economy." The main drivers of spending, job growth and income growth, remain relatively stable. And last month, the Commerce Department reported strong retail sales in May,  reflecting an expanding economy.But mortgage rates have been rising and the troubles in the subprime mortgage business, which gave loans to people with poor credit, have become more widespread. Reports  about delinquencies and foreclosures have made  consumers  more reluctant to spend money, he said.The retail sales report for June will be released on Friday, and analysts and others are predicting a decrease in spending. "This appears to be a spillover effect from the downturn in the housing market," said James O'Sullivan, an economist from UBS.A slumping housing industry affects consumer spending in more ways than one, he said. Not only are consumers less willing to shop,  they are also hesitant to do home repairs and buy  appliances.Sears said sales at Kmart stores, a leader in tools, home appliances and lawn and garden equipment, declined across most categories, except for a small increase in purchases of women's apparel and footwear. Home appliance sales fell more sharply than most other categories."Although we believe our business has suffered from many of the same factors that have led other retailers to announce disappointing results and lowered expectations," Aylwin B. Lewis, Sears Holdings' chief executive, said in a news release, "our recent performance underscores our ongoing need to become more relevant to consumers while improving our discipline around expense management."Though Home Depot forecast a sales decline of as much as 2 percent and a revenue drop in the mid-single digits, the company said it would continue with  plans to open 108 stores this fiscal year."While we expect the housing market to remain challenging for the rest of 2007 and into 2008, we plan to continue our reinvestment plans,"  Carol B. Tome, the chief financial officer and executive vice president  for corporate services at Home Depot, said in a news release.Both retailers plan to buy back some of their stock. Last month, Home Depot announced a buyback valued at $22.5 billion. Yesterday, the company announced an offer to buy as many as 250 million shares for  $39 to $44 apiece.Sears said yesterday that it  would repurchase an additional $1 billion in shares.Analysts forecast  more sales declines from retailers as the softness in housing continues.
