As far as Eric Rabinowitz knew, there was no problem with the checks from an insurance company that he had been receiving since he was a teenager, for damage to his right eye. His limited vision prevented him from holding a regular job, and he depended on the insurance money to pay for his apartment and other expenses.But a state official discovered in May that the regular payments to Mr. Rabinowitz, 39, and about 11,000 others — mostly New Yorkers — were in danger of being disrupted because of a chronic shortfall in a state fund created 15 years ago to cover the obligations of a failed insurance company.The state official, Mark Peters, began contacting other insurance companies, including MetLife and State Farm, and persuaded them to ante up more than $600 million. Gov. Eliot Spitzer said yesterday that the payments would keep flowing. These people "will receive their payments," Mr. Spitzer said.Mr. Peters, the deputy superintendent of an obscure agency known as the New York Liquidation Bureau, discovered the shortfall in a routine review of the agency's records a month after he took office. The insurance fund needed $2.1 billion to meet its obligations. But Mr. Peters found it had only $1.4 billion. "It was a significant deficit, and it was only going to get worse," Mr. Peters said in an interview.Standing at the governor's side yesterday at his Midtown offices, Mr. Rabinowitz and two others who rely on regular insurance checks said they learned that their money had been in jeopardy only when state officials phoned a few days ago to say the problem had been fixed.Years ago, when his family  settled with their doctor's insurance company after an eye operation they said was botched, Mr. Rabinowitz said, "we had confidence that the state would back us up.""It's refreshing," he added, "to find out that the government really can come through."The insurance product used to pay Mr. Rabinowitz and the others is called an annuity. In settling claims for injuries from such things as consumer products, car accidents and medical mistakes, defendants bought  annuities from a national insurance company, Executive Life Insurance Company of New York, that promised to provide regular payments, often for life but sometimes for 25 years or so. Some annuities were also purchased to pay pension benefits.Executive Life, and its parent, Executive Life Insurance of California, collapsed in 1991 and New York created a fund to meet the obligations of the annuities. It was that fund that New York officials discovered was in trouble.Not immediately, but sometime in the years to come, the fund would not be able to provide the several thousand dollars a month that Mr. Rabinowitz has been receiving since his youth.Others, including Cheryl Danto-Scanlan, 35, of Belle Harbor, Queens, would see their payments shrivel. Mrs. Danto-Scanlan was also at the governor's office yesterday. She was 8 years old and roller-skating across a street in Brooklyn when a speeding car struck her, nearly killing her. Now she is married with a child and working as a sign-language interpreter.Philip Friedle's  right leg was crushed in a conveyor belt when he was 13. Mr. Friedle, 39, of Mount Hope, N.Y., in Orange County,  works for the state correction department. The money, he said, helped him pay medical bills and "buy a nice home in a nice neighborhood."To cover the failed insurers' annuities, New York officials took the company's remaining assets and invested them in stocks and bonds. They expected the investments to yield about 10 percent a year; they earned 8 percent.About half of the recipients, or about 5,500 people, were victims of accidents. They accounted for about 90 percent of the payments, Mr. Peters said. The remainder of the money has been going to pensions for retirees.When Mr. Peters, who reports to the superintendent of insurance, went to the insurance companies to fill the gap that developed in the Executive Life fund, their first reaction was not to volunteer the money. "Everyone's initial reaction was essentially one of surprise," Mr. Peters said, "sort of, 'Why me?'"The answer, as the insurers knew, was that New York and other states require the industry to make good on losses of insurance companies that fail.Frank Keating, the chief executive of the American Council of Life Insurers, said  insurers were committed to seeing that the "steady streams of lifetime income" were delivered.The insurers could have dodged the payments, industry experts said. But some of them would have wound up in court. Moreover, Mr. Spitzer said that failing to make good on the annuities, which are a mainstay of the life insurance business, could have threatened "the long-term viability of the insurance companies to sell these things."For the insurance companies, Mr. Spitzer said, "it was not only the right thing to do, it was the wise thing to do."Roger B. Smith, the General Motors executive who tried to modernize the American automotive giant during the 1980s but instead became associated with its decline, died Thursday in suburban Detroit. He was 82.Tom Wilkinson, a G.M. spokesman,  said Mr. Smith  died after a short illness. G.M. did not give the cause.Mr. Smith, who was the company's chairman and chief executive from 1981 to 1990, became widely known to filmgoers in 1989 as the involuntary focus of the satiric documentary "Roger & Me," which started Michael Moore's career as a director.Mr. Smith was "almost a character in Greek tragedy, the great man with the tragic flaw," said Marina von Neumann Whitman, who was a G.M. vice president during Mr. Smith's tenure and is now a professor of business administration at the University of Michigan.Douglas A. Fraser, who was president of the United Automobile Workers union while Mr. Smith was chief executive, said of him, "He tried to change the corporation, but he couldn't quite pull it off."Mr. Smith led G.M. during one of the most wrenching decades in the history of the company and the automobile industry. As the 1980s began, G.M. sat atop the automobile industry, as it had since the end of World War II, with 46 percent of American market share.But by the time Mr. Smith retired, in 1990, G.M. held only 35 percent of the American market, with a lineup of look-alike automobiles blemished by poor quality. Customers were turning to Japanese companies and resurgent Detroit players like the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation.Variously described as arrogant and casual in manner, with ruddy skin and a high-pitched voice, Mr. Smith remained a controversial figure in Detroit long after he had left the automotive scene."Roger Smith's tenure was one of the darkest in General Motors' history, for customers, workers and for residents of G.M.'s factory towns," the consumer advocate Ralph Nader said in 1995.But G.M.'s current chief executive, Rick Wagoner, said yesterday that Mr. Smith "knew that we have to accept change, understand change and learn to make it work for us.""Roger was truly a pioneer in the fast-moving global industry that we now take for granted," Mr. Wagoner said.Roger Bonham Smith was born July 12, 1925, in Columbus, Ohio, the son of E. Quimby Smith and Bess Obetz Smith, and moved to Detroit as a youngster. He attended high school in Detroit and received his undergraduate and M.B.A. degrees from the University of Michigan.He joined G.M. after serving in the Navy in World War II and spent his entire career there, rising through its financial ranks at a time when the company chose its chief executive from among its "bean counters."One of his first steps after becoming chief executive in 1981 was to order a reorganization of G.M.'s far-flung operations, which had been decentralized since the days of its legendary president, Alfred P. Sloan.Under Mr. Smith, the company branched out to explore new technologies, like robotics, electronics and data processing. It bought Hughes Electronics, as well as Electronic Data Systems, known as E.D.S.But many of Mr. Smith's steps added layers of complexity, at times bringing the company to a virtual standstill while managers sorted out who would take responsibility.Even Mr. Smith voiced frustration at the outcome. "Wouldn't it have been wonderful if I could have flipped a switch and it would have been done?" he said in a 1995 interview."To his credit, he knew something was wrong there, so he began an age of frantic experimentation," said James P. Womack, chief executive of the Lean Enterprise Institute in Cambridge, Mass., and the co-author of "The Machine That Changed the World," a study of Japanese factories in the United States.Mr. Smith's name is associated with a number of automotive disasters. One was the GM-10 project, a series of cars shared by G.M.'s different brands intended to establish a more efficient way of product development but ended up being an experiment that ultimately cost the company $7 billion.The cars, as well as other models sold by G.M.'s divisions, were derided for looking too much alike; Lincoln lampooned them in an ad for its luxury cars. "In the end some terrible damage was done" to G.M.'s reputation, said Jon Lowell, a veteran Detroit automotive journalist.Mr. Smith had better success with a joint venture with the Toyota Motor Company to build small cars in California. He made the first gesture to Toyota's chief executive, Eiji Toyoda, a member of the company's founding family.Protectionist threats against Japan were mounting in the United States when the two men met at a country club in 1982 to discuss the small-car idea. (Toyota had earlier tried unsuccessfully to persuade Ford to participate in a joint-production plan.) G.M. and Toyota eventually settled on a G.M. plant in Fremont, Calif., using Toyota's production methods to build small vehicles for each company.Mr. Smith did not stop there. He built half a dozen new factories in North America and started  the Saturn Corporation, which was meant to be a "clean sheet of paper" approach to producing and selling automobiles, particularly small cars, to compete with Japanese models.The Saturn announcement came as the industry was climbing out of a recession, and competition for the site of its factory was fierce. Governors, mayors and civic officials from around the United States poured into Mr. Smith's office on the 14th floor of the G.M. Building in Detroit, offering the company millions of dollars in incentives to land the plant.In the end, Mr. Smith chose Spring Hill, Tenn., about 35 miles south of Nashville, not far from the Tennessee plant built by the Nissan Motor Corporation. The Saturn plant officially opened the day before he retired in July 1990, rolling the first of its plastic-sided cars off the assembly line as he looked on.Even though he promoted labor-management cooperation at Saturn, Mr. Smith became a target for the United Automobile Workers union. It struck G.M. several times during his tenure, notably in 1984, shutting  the company for several weeks.He angered working-class Detroit residents by building a factory in a traditionally Polish neighborhood, nicknamed Poletown. Though the struggling city welcomed the project, dozens of homes had to be demolished and hundreds of people relocated.While Mr. Smith was building new factories, G.M. was cutting jobs at older ones, as in Flint, Mich., Mr. Moore's hometown. In "Roger & Me," Mr. Moore vividly depicted the decline in Flint, where one of every two residents had once worked for the company. The film chronicled an often-humorous effort by Mr. Moore to track down Mr. Smith to challenge him over Flint's demise.In fact, Mr. Smith was an accessible executive, regularly sitting for interviews and occasionally ferrying journalists back to their offices in his chauffeur-driven Cadillac. (Yesterday, Mr. Moore's Web site posted a picture of Mr. Smith framed in black.)His candor raised the hackles of union leaders, including Mr. Fraser, the U.A.W.'s president at the time. After Mr. Smith threatened to shut plants during sensitive negotiations in 1982, Mr. Fraser vowed to find "a zipper for Roger Smith's lips."Mr. Smith also clashed with E.D.S.'s founder, H. Ross Perot, whom he put on the G.M. board after purchasing his company. Mr. Perot began criticizing G.M. as intransigent, infuriating Mr. Smith, who sought his ouster. Mr. Perot eventually left, with a $700 million buyout that barred him from discussing G.M.Mr. Smith is survived by his wife of 53 years, Barbara; two sons, Roger B. Smith and Drew J. Smith; two daughters, Jennifer A. Ponski and Victoria B. Sawula; and six grandchildren.Despite the many controversies in his career, Mr. Smith said time would bear out the wisdom of his decisions."I don't expect them to build a big stone monument to me; that's not my goal in life," he said in the 1995 interview. "I'd like to think that if I did anything extraordinary, it was the work that we did in getting the corporation ready for the 21st century."But General Motors continued to decline after he left. It has since spun off E.D.S. and Hughes Electronics, Mr. Smith's two major acquisitions, and it was passed temporarily by Toyota this year as the world's biggest car company; G.M. now holds only about 24 percent of the American market.Today the company is in the midst of its latest restructuring, which calls for it to cut 30,000 jobs by next year. This fall, G.M. reached an agreement with 73,000 union workers in the United States, one-fifth the number when Mr. Smith was chief executive."He never could crack his own culture," Ms. Whitman, the former G.M. vice president, said of her former boss. "He tried to become a modern leader, when he really was the old, imperious-style C.E.O. I do believe he tried, though."Roger B. Smith, the General Motors executive who tried to modernize the American automotive giant during the 1980s but instead became a scapegoat for its decline, died Thursday in suburban Detroit. He was 82.Tom Wilkinson, a spokesman for G.M., confirmed the death today, saying Mr. Smith had died after a short illness. G.M. did not disclose the cause.Mr. Smith, who was chairman and chief executive at G.M. from 1981 to 1990, was "almost a character in Greek tragedy, the great man with the tragic flaw," said Marina Von Neumann Whitman, a professor of business administration and public policy at the University of Michigan, who was a G.M. vice president during Mr. Smith's tenure.Douglas A. Fraser, who was president of the United Automobile Workers union while Mr. Smith was chief executive, said of Mr. Smith, "He tried to change the corporation but he couldn't quite pull it off."Mr. Smith led G.M. during one of the most wrenching decades in the history of the company and the automobile industry. At the beginning of the 1980s, G.M. sat firmly atop the automobile industry, as it had since the end of World War II, with 46 percent of American market share.But by the time Mr. Smith retired in 1990, G.M. held only 35 percent of the American market, its lineup populated with look-alike automobiles blemished by poor quality, as Japanese companies and resurgent Detroit players like the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation took customers away.Mr. Smith remained a controversial figure in Detroit long after he left the automotive scene. Variously described as arrogant and casual, with ruddy skin and a high-pitched voice, he became widely known to filmgoers in 1989 as the unwitting star of the satiric documentary "Roger & Me," which launched the career of the director Michael Moore."Roger Smith's tenure was one of the darkest in General Motors' history, for customers, workers and for residents of G.M.'s factory towns," the consumer advocate Ralph Nader said in 1995.But G.M.'s current chief executive, Rick Wagoner, today called Mr. Smith "a leader who knew that we have to accept change, understand change, and learn to make it work for us.""Roger was truly a pioneer in the fast moving global industry that we now take for granted," Mr. Wagoner said.Roger Bonham Smith was born July 12, 1925 in Columbus, Ohio, and moved to Detroit as a youngster. He joined G.M. after World War II and spent his entire career there, rising through its financial ranks at a time when the company chose its chief executive from among its "bean counters."In one of his first steps after becoming chief executive in 1981, Mr. Smith ordered a reorganization of G.M.'s far-flung operations, which had been decentralized since the days of its legendary president, Alfred Sloan.Under Mr. Smith, the company branched out from a maker of automobiles to explore new technologies, like robotics, electronics and data processing. It bought Hughes Electronics, as well as Electronic Data Systems, known as E.D.S.But many of Mr. Smith's steps added layers of complexity, at times bringing the company to a virtual standstill while managers sorted out who would take responsibility.Even Mr. Smith voiced frustration at the outcome. "Wouldn't it have been wonderful if I could have flipped a switch and it would have been done?" he said in a 1995 interview."To his credit, he knew something was wrong there, so he began an age of frantic experimentation," said James P. Womack, chief executive of the Lean Enterprise Institute in Cambridge, Mass., and the co-author of "The Machine That Changed the World," a study of Japanese factories in the United States.Mr. Smith's name is associated with a series of automotive disasters. One was the GM-10 project, a series of cars shared by G.M.'s different brands that was supposed to represent a more-efficient way of developing products but that ultimately cost the company $7 billion.The cars, as well as other models sold by G.M.'s various divisions, were derided for looking too much alike; Lincoln lampooned them in an ad for its luxury cars. "In the end some terrible damage was done" to G.M.'s reputation, said Jon Lowell, a veteran Detroit automotive journalist.Mr. Smith had better success with other automotive endeavors, including a joint venture with Toyota Motor Company to build small cars in California. Mr. Smith made the first gesture to Toyota's chairman, Eiji Toyoda, a member of the company's founding family.Amid growing protectionist threats in the United States aimed at Japan, the two met at a country club in 1982 to discuss the small-car idea after Toyota had unsuccessfully tried to persuade Ford to participate in a joint production plan. Eventually G.M. and Toyota settled on a G.M. plant in Fremont, Calif., using Toyota's production methods to build small vehicles for each company.The venture, called New United Motor Manufacturing Incorporated, or N.U.M.M.I., was a risk for both sides, said Dennis M. Cuneo, a former senior vice president at Toyota's North American operations."Toyoda and Smith were very involved," said Mr. Cuneo, who was the fourth person hired by the joint project. "They really pushed to get this done."Mr. Smith did not stop there. Along with a half-dozen new factories in North America, he launched the Saturn Corporation, which was meant to be a "clean sheet of paper" approach to producing and selling automobiles, particularly small cars, to compete with Japanese models.The Saturn announcement came as the industry was climbing out of a recession, and competition for the site of its factory was fierce. Governors, mayors and civic officials from around the United States poured into Mr. Smith's office on the 14th floor of the G.M. Building in Detroit, offering the company millions of dollars in incentives to land the plant.In the end, Mr. Smith chose Spring Hill, Tenn., about 35 miles from Nashville, not far from the Tennessee plant built by Nissan Motor Corporation. The Saturn plant officially opened the day before he retired in July 1990, rolling the first of its plastic-sided cars off the assembly line as he looked on.Even as he was touting labor-management cooperation at Saturn, Mr. Smith became an angry target for the United Automobile Workers' union. It struck G.M. several times during his tenure, notably in 1984, shutting down the company for several weeks.He angered working-class Detroit residents by building a factory in a traditionally Polish neighborhood, nicknamed Poletown. Though the struggling city welcomed the project, it required the demolition of dozens of homes and the relocation of hundreds of people.While Mr. Smith was building new factories, G.M. was  cutting jobs at older, more traditional ones, as in Flint, Mich., the filmmaker Mr. Moore's hometown. His movie vividly depicted the decline under way in Flint, where one of every two residents once worked for the company.The premise of the film was an often-humorous effort by  Mr. Moore to track down Mr. Smith in order to challenge him over Flint's demise. In fact, Mr. Smith was a readily accessible executive, regularly sitting for interviews in his office and occasionally ferrying journalists back to their offices in his chauffeur-driven Cadillac.Mr. Smith's candor on those occasions raised the hackles of union leaders, including Mr. Fraser, the U.A.W.'s president at the time. After Mr. Smith threatened to shut plants during sensitive negotiations in 1982, Mr. Fraser vowed to find "a zipper for Roger Smith's lips."He also clashed with E.D.S.'s founder, H. Ross Perot, whom he put on the G.M. board after purchasing his company. Mr. Perot began criticizing G.M. as intransigent, infuriating Mr. Smith, who sought his ouster. Mr. Perot eventually left, with a $700 million buyout that barred him from discussing G.M.Mr. Smith attended high school in Detroit and served in the Navy in World War II. He received his undergraduate and M.B.A. degrees from the University of Michigan.He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Barbara, as well as two sons, Roger B. Smith and Drew J. Smith, and two daughters, Jennifer A. Ponski and Victoria B. Sawula. He had six grandchildren.Despite the many controversies, Mr. Smith defended his record, saying time would bear out the wisdom of his decisions."I don't expect them to build a big stone monument to me; that's not my goal in life," he said in a 1995 interview. "I'd like to think that if I did anything extraordinary, it was the work that we did in getting the corporation ready for the 21st century."But G.M. continued to decline after he left it.  The auto company has since spun off E.D.S. and Hughes Electronics, his two major acquisitions. This year, G.M. was passed as the world's biggest auto companyand now holds only 22 percent of the American car market.G.M. is in the midst of its latest restructuring, which calls for it to cut 30,000 jobs  This fall, G.M. reached a new agreement with 73,000 union workers in the United States, one-fifth the number when Mr. Smith was chief executive."He never could crack his own culture," Ms. Whitman, the former G.M. vice president, said of her former boss. "He tried to become a modern leader, when he really was the old, imperious-style C.E.O. I do believe he tried, though."BOTH my father and grandfather were doctors. I studied pre-med as an undergrad, but I found I had an extreme distaste for organic chemistry. It made me face myself in the mirror. I liked business, so I got my master's degree in health care administration at Duke University.I ran hospitals for five  years before moving into managed care. As an administrator for a New Jersey hospital system, I worked with many doctors and grew close to several.One problem I came across: Hospitals are reimbursed based on the number of beds filled, so they are focused on occupancy rate instead of keeping people well. Things like that drove me crazy. They encourage all the wrong behaviors.I learned an invaluable lesson about information technology when I was an executive vice president at Oxford Health Plans in the 1990s. The company outgrew its computer system, so the I.T. department developed a new one. In trying to change to the new system, they lost service and could not pay customer claims. They had a tough time restoring the old system.I wasn't in charge of that division, but I've since become a student of how to prevent this type of catastrophe. The company recovered, but its reputation and stock suffered for a time. Knowing what I know now, I wish I could go back and help with that effort.I was president and chief operating officer at Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield in 2001 when the planes hit the World Trade Center. We were the fourth-largest occupant of the first tower, with a third of our employees based there — 12 of them died. Our I.T. systems had the necessary redundancy and disaster recovery so we had backup for everything. As a result, our clients and patients had no service interruption. Graduate school can't train someone for a disaster like that.I've had allergies since I was a kid. Years ago I saw an allergist and other specialists to get some relief, with little success. Allergy treatment is usually trial and error. Doctors don't have  time to teach you about drugs, and I'm impatient. Early in my treatment, I was told  to "take two puffs" of an asthma inhaler. When I didn't find relief, I stopped the treatment.Recently I went to the National Jewish Medical  and Research  Center in Denver. These doctors did the necessary tests, from nose to throat to lungs, and then collaborated. They took the time to explain I had a hyperactive airway that needed to be calmed. They gave me the same drug I had  taken five years earlier, but told me to give it nine months. It would take that long to settle my lungs down permanently. Wouldn't it have been nice if someone had told me that five years ago?I had also taken a different drug for two years, but because of my body chemistry it simply didn't work. A lot of medicines are like that. Science is moving in a direction in which drugs can be dispensed according to a person's unique genetic, molecular and cellular makeup. Medco is a pharmacy benefit manager. Our mail-order pharmacists  will soon be able to use  the knowledge coming out of human genome studies. That will help people avoid taking a drug that's ineffective for them and eliminate the expense.I'm probably one of the few people   to ring the bell on the New York Stock Exchange twice in 12 months. I took Empire public in  2002 as WellChoice, accepted the job at Medco in March 2003, and took Medco public in August.Health care reform is my passion. I believe we can do a  better job with every dollar we spend on health care. That doesn't mean I plan to enter politics. You can't get at the root cause of the problem in the public sector. The health care system will improve through incremental change, not a revolution. But there's enormous opportunity through continuous incremental change.WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 — Business lobbyists, nervously anticipating Democratic gains in next year's elections, are racing to secure final approval for a wide range of health, safety, labor and economic rules, in the belief that they can get better deals from the Bush administration than from its successor.Hoping to lock in policies backed by a pro-business administration, poultry farmers are seeking an exemption for the smelly fumes produced by tons of chicken manure. Businesses are lobbying the Bush administration to roll back rules that let employees take time off for family needs and medical problems. And electric power companies are pushing the government to relax pollution-control requirements."There's a growing sense, a growing probability, that the next administration could be Democratic," said Craig L. Fuller, executive vice president of Apco Worldwide, a lobbying and public relations firm, who was a White House official in the Reagan administration. "Corporate executives, trade associations and lobbying firms have begun to recalibrate their strategies."The Federal Register typically grows fat with regulations churned out in the final weeks of any administration. But the push for such rules has become unusually intense because of the possibility that Democrats in 2009 may consolidate control of the White House, the Senate and the House of Representatives for the first time in 14 years.Even as they try to shape pending regulations, business lobbies are also looking beyond President Bush. Corporations and trade associations are recruiting Democratic lobbyists. And lobbyists, expecting battles over taxes and health care in 2009, are pouring money into the campaigns of Democratic candidates for Congress and the White House.Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, said, "I am beefing up my staff, putting more money aside for economic analysis of regulations that I foresee coming out of a possible new Democratic administration."At the Transportation Department, trucking companies are trying to get final approval for a rule increasing the maximum number of hours commercial truck drivers can work. And automakers are trying to persuade officials to set new standards for the strength of car roofs — standards far less stringent than what consumer advocates say is needed to protect riders in a rollover.Business groups generally argue that federal regulations are onerous and needlessly add costs that are passed on to consumers, while their opponents accuse them of trying to whittle down regulations that are vital to safety and quality of life. Documents on file at several agencies show that business groups have stepped up lobbying in recent months, as they try to help the Bush administration finish work on rules that have been hotly debated and, in some cases, litigated for years.At the Interior Department, coal companies are lobbying for a regulation that would allow them to dump rock and dirt from mountaintop mining operations into nearby streams and valleys. It would be prohibitively expensive to haul away the material, they say, and there are no waste sites in the area. Luke Popovich, a vice president of the National Mining Association, said that a Democratic president was more likely to side with "the greens."A coalition of environmental groups has condemned the proposed rule, saying it would accelerate "the destruction of mountains, forests and streams throughout Appalachia."A priority for many employers in 2008 is to secure changes in the rules for family and medical leave. Under a 1993 law, people who work for a company with 50 or more employees are generally entitled to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for newborn children or sick relatives or to tend to medical problems of their own. The Labor Department has signaled its interest in changes by soliciting public comments.The National Association of Manufacturers said the law had been widely abused and had caused "a staggering loss of work hours" as employees took unscheduled, intermittent time off for health conditions that could not be verified. The use  of such leave time tends to rise sharply before holiday weekends, on the day after Super Bowl Sunday and on the first day of the local hunting season, employers said.Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women and Families, an advocacy group, said she was "very concerned that the Bush administration will issue new rules that cut back on family and medical leave for those who need it."That could be done, for example, by narrowing the definition of a "serious health condition" or by establishing stricter requirements for taking intermittent leave for chronic conditions that flare up unexpectedly.The Chamber of Commerce is seeking such changes. "We want to get this done before the election," Mr. Johnson said. "The next White House may be less hospitable to our position."Indeed, most of the Democratic candidates for president have offered proposals to expand the 1993 law, to provide paid leave and to cover millions of additional workers. Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut was a principal author of the law. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York says it has been "enormously successful." And Senator Barack Obama of Illinois says that more generous family leave is an essential part of his plan to "reclaim the American dream."Susan E. Dudley, administrator of the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, said, "Research suggests that regulatory activity increases in the final year of an administration, regardless of party."Whoever becomes the next president, Democrat or Republican, will find that it is not so easy to make immediate and sweeping changes. The Supreme Court has held that a new president cannot arbitrarily revoke final regulations that already have the force of law. To undo such rules, a new administration must provide a compelling justification and go through a formal rule-making process, which can take months or years.Within hours of taking office in 2001, Mr. Bush slammed the brakes on scores of regulations issued just before he took office, so his administration could review them. A study in the Wake Forest Law Review found that one-fifth of those "midnight regulations" were amended or repealed by the Bush administration, while four-fifths survived.Some of the biggest battles now involve rules affecting the quality of air, water and soil.The National Chicken Council and the U.S. Poultry and Egg Association have petitioned  for an exemption from laws and rules that require them to report emissions of ammonia exceeding 100 pounds a day. They argue that "emissions from poultry houses pose little or no risk to public health" because the ammonia disperses quickly in the air.Perdue Farms, one of the nation's largest poultry producers, said that it was "essentially impossible to provide an accurate estimate of any ammonia releases," and that a reporting requirement would place "an undue and useless burden" on farmers.But environmental groups told the Bush administration that "ammonia emissions from poultry operations pose great risk to public health." And, they noted, a federal judge in Kentucky has found that farmers discharge ammonia from their barns, into the environment, so it will not sicken or kill the chickens.On another issue, the Environmental Protection Agency is drafting final rules that would allow utility companies to modify coal-fired power plants and increase their emissions without installing new pollution-control equipment.The Edison Electric Institute, the lobby for power companies, said the companies needed regulatory relief to meet the growing demand for "safe, reliable and affordable electricity."But John D. Walke, director of the clean air program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the rules would be "the Bush administration's parting gift to the utility industry."If Democrats gain seats in Congress or win the White House, that could pose problems for all-Republican lobbying firms like Barbour, Griffith & Rogers, whose founders include Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee.Loren Monroe, chief operating officer of the Barbour firm, said: "If the right person came along, we might hire a Democrat. And it's quite possible we could team up in an alliance with a Democratic firm."Two executive recruiters, Ivan H. Adler of the McCormick Group and Nels B. Olson of Korn/Ferry International, said they had seen a growing demand for Democratic lobbyists. "It's a bull market for Democrats, especially those who have worked for the Congressional leadership" or a powerful committee, Mr. Adler said.Few industries have more cause for concern than drug companies, which have been a favorite target of Democrats. Republicans run the Washington offices of most major drug companies, and a former Republican House member, Billy Tauzin, is president of their trade association, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.The association has hired three Democrats this year, so its lobbying team is split evenly between Republicans and Democrats.Loren B. Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, a policy research organization, said: "Defense contractors have not only begun to prepare for the next administration. They have begun to shape it. They've met with Hillary Clinton and other candidates."WASHINGTON, Dec. 3  —  In the summer of 2005, senior American intelligence officials began traveling the world with a secret slide show drawn from thousands of pages that they said were downloaded from a stolen Iranian laptop computer, trying to prove that Iran was lying when it said it had no interest in building a nuclear weapon.The slides detailed efforts to build what looked like a compact warhead for an Iranian missile and were portrayed by the Americans as suggesting that the Iranian military was working to solve the technical problems in building a bomb.Now, that assertion has been thrown into doubt by a surprising reversal: the conclusion, contained in the declassified summary of a new National Intelligence Estimate on Iran's nuclear programs, that Iran's effort to master the technology of building a nuclear weapon had halted two years before those briefings.At the time of the laptop slide show, some European and United Nations officials questioned what they were being shown. "I can fabricate that data," one said at the time. "It looks beautiful, but it is open to doubt."At the time, almost no one in the White House or the intelligence community is known to have seriously considered the idea that the weapons program might have been stopped. And the new intelligence assessment does not, as far as is known, suggest that the information relied on in 2005 was fabricated.Perhaps the slide show presented by the Americans in 2005 was simply outdated — the laptop's data and other information, like the light from a distant star, taking years to arrive at the lenses of the intelligence gatherers.The  assessment does not explain  —  unless it is addressed in more than 130 pages still marked classified  —  how the May 2005 conclusion that Iran was still pressing ahead with  a nuclear weapons program went awry.President Bush himself has said on several occasions that he knew that proving the Iranian case to the world would be difficult.  "People will say, if we're trying to make the case on Iran, well, the intelligence failed in Iraq, therefore, how can we trust the intelligence in Iran?" he said at a news conference in 2005. He concluded that building pressure on Iran "requires people to believe that the Iranian nuclear program is, to a certain extent, ongoing."Now, he could end his presidency with even his own intelligence apparatus uncertain about Iran's true intentions."This report will be used to undercut our efforts to build a consensus that Iran must suspend its enrichment program, playing to those who support concessions and undermining the prospects for effective pressure on the regime," said Robert G. Joseph, who helped to build the case against Iran in the Bush White House during the first term and moved to the State Department in the second term.Mr. Joseph, who in 2005 was one of the officials who gave briefings on the laptop evidence, said  Monday he could not recall "any suggestion in the intelligence that Iran was doing anything other than moving full speed ahead."Mr. Joseph's skepticism  is shared by some current officials, mostly hawks, who believe, as he does, that Iran is ultimately seeking a weapons capability. But the officials would not publicly challenge the new finding.Several officials said that if the new National Intelligence Estimate is right, Iran's strategy was an unusual one. It might be the first country in nuclear history to halt a covert program to make nuclear weapons, then speed up its  program to enrich nuclear fuel, as it did in 2006, in very public defiance of international pressures to stop.A senior administration official speculated that Iran may have concluded that the risk of getting caught with a covert weapons program was simply too high — especially after the United States presented evidence of secret programs to North Korea in 2002 and Libya in 2003. The official said that perhaps Iran wanted to master the hardest part of the process first — making nuclear fuel — before risking the next step, designing a weapon.Another official, a senior nuclear specialist with long technical experience in proliferation issues, said it was also possible that Iran had made so much progress in its clandestine work that the 2003 halt might have little practical significance, as long as it can keep working on its open efforts to produce fuel suitable for a weapon. "One scenario is that they've already solved all the weapons physics problems and are just waiting for the material," he said.But he conceded the other possibility, expressed by the intelligence analysis, "that they were spooked by the perceived pressures and decided to back away."International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors have found that Iran, working in secrecy for 18 years, from 1985 to 2003, pursued many technologies to enrich uranium.  Iran said it was simply seeking to enrich uranium to produce electricity, and had to do so in secret because Europe, Israel and the United States would try to deny it technology.Much of Iran's clandestine work violated Iran's obligations under the 1968 Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which requires signatories to fully disclose their atomic labors. At the same time, Iran made no secret of its ambitions to build large rockets and warheads that were ideally suited for delivering nuclear arms. For two decades, with the aid of North Korea, the Iranians have developed generations of long-range rockets.The problem the administration faces now is that it is declaring that Iran stopped its nuclear weapons development with the same certainty that it insisted two years ago that the program was speeding ahead. Asked  Monday to explain how that was possible, Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, said simply: "Iran is one of a handful of the hardest intelligence targets going. They are very good at this business of keeping secrets."Say what you will about Judith Regan — most people have — she knows her way around a rip-roaring read. The complaint in her $100 million civil suit against the  News Corporation, with its riveting passages about corporate connivance, public malfeasance and ill-fated romance, is as much a page-turner as any of the dozens of salacious best sellers she produced at ReganBooks, her imprint at HarperCollins before she was fired at the end of last year.But the deeper I went in the complaint, the more I felt I had read this book before. The narrative — about a talented but unpredictable impresario who joined forces with a media company with a great deal of fanfare before a huge, ugly divorce — mirrored the confrontation between Rosie O'Donnell and Gruner & Jahr USA in 2002. The parallels are not exact — it was Gruner & Jahr that sued Ms. O'Donnell on the grounds of breach of contract, while Ms. Regan is the one doing the suing, claiming that she had been defamed by News Corporation officials — but they are instructive, especially for the News Corporation.In the case of Ms. O'Donnell, it was her insistence on making sure that the old McCall's magazine, renamed Rosie, reflected her take on the world, including putting herself on the cover with an upraised and bandaged middle finger to depict her fight against a staph infection.Ms. Regan, who asserted in her suit that she had sold over $1 billion worth of books, was fired after her plans to publish a hypothetical confession from O. J. Simpson caused an uproar and HarperCollins then said that she had made anti-Semitic remarks during the ensuing dust-up.Both Ms. O'Donnell and Ms. Regan entertained settlement discussions before deciding to press on, in part because they could not abide by nondisclosure agreements. These are not people who go away quietly.In Ms. O'Donnell's case, the trial played a role in the eventual shut down of Gruner & Jahr's American division. No one, including me, is suggesting that Ms. Regan will take down a company with a market capitalization of $66 billion. Still, what seems like a nuisance can become a significant problem in court. The News Corporation, a tough outfit that does not embarrass or scare easily, would still seem to have a lot more to lose than Ms. Regan.Much continues to be made of the fact that Ms. Regan is sitting on explosive allegations about Rudolph W. Giuliani, former mayor of New York and a presidential candidate. In her suit, she claims that she was encouraged to lie by a News Corporation official about the activities of Bernard B. Kerik, a former romantic interest who was also the former New York police commissioner, a candidate for Homeland Security secretary and a Giuliani business partner.She further said that the company had delivered on a promise to systematically smear her reputation if she did not go along. News Corporation officials point out that Rupert Murdoch has never been a supporter of Mr. Giuliani and describe the accusation as silly, but Ms. Regan steadfastly maintains that she has the goods to support her allegations."Judith Regan would not have brought this lawsuit unless she had explicit, unambiguous evidence to back it up," said a spokesman on her behalf.Of course, you can say anything in a lawsuit, and Ms. Regan remains coy about the exact nature of the accusations. A spokesman for the News Corporation pointed out that the case was  a long way from a trial and added that the company was "highly dismissive of her complaint and the company will vigorously defend itself in this action."Before the trial involving  Ms. O'Donnell and her former partners  — the damages sought were also $100 million  —  I can remember how executives of Gruner & Jahr expressed the same kind of confidence. Then Ms. O'Donnell went to work on the witness stand, saying precisely what was on her mind. It was a field day for working reporters (I was one of them), with mud and tears flying in all directions before the presiding judge decided to put a pox on both their houses and gave each side nothing.But Gruner & Jahr USA never recovered from the trial, which included the revelation that it had manipulated financial and circulation figures.If Ms. Regan and the News Corporation don't settle, the discovery and trial could be embarrassing for reasons that have nothing to do with Mr. Giuliani. Ms. Regan has turned down a settlement of more than $6 million, according to news articles.It's not that her particular claims about the News Corporation have to stick. Pull back the blankets on any enterprise — the book business, the movie business, what the heck, the news business — and some common industry practices are not going to look so good in the cold light of the courtroom. She was in a position to know a lot, and she may be in the mood to tell all of it."We don't know the truth of the various allegations, but other things may come out that are not directly related to what she is suing for," said Mark C. Zauderer, a Manhattan trial lawyer. "You have to consider the financial exposure versus the reputational exposure of not settling."Ms. Regan, perhaps more so than Ms. O'Donnell, has a penchant for aggression matched only by a knack for surprises. After it became apparent that the public found the idea of the Simpson book and an accompanying interview abhorrent, she suggested that as a victim of abuse, she had decided to "sit face to face with the killer, because I wanted him, and the other men who broke my heart and your hearts, to tell the truth, to confess their sins, to do penance."Those religious motifs were on display more recently in a short as-told-to article in Harper's Bazaar in which she posed as St. Sebastian, replete with bloody arrows accessorizing a fetching white gown. "People were afraid to come to my defense, and they betrayed me right and left," she said in the article. "They wanted to save their own hides. Or they were promised something better. I don't know, whatever the reason, it disappointed me to the bone and broke my heart."Ms. Regan's profound public woundedness has her healing on a number of fronts, including calling on her former training in the Vassar Madrigals to record a version of "My Way." She is said to be contemplating recording an album of standards ("Call Me Irresponsible" might make a good B-side to "My Way.")She also started filming a documentary in China, and she must be checking the Amazon best-seller list with satisfaction. The Simpson book, "If I Did It," continues to sell, albeit for another company and with the profits accruing to the Goldman family.In a sense, Ms. Regan was dispossessed for doing precisely what she was good at, which is to pick books that stir controversy and sales. Gruner & Jahr grabbed onto Ms. O'Donnell to help revive McCall's, a dying women's magazine, because just about everything she does kicks up public interest. But both women's abilities to rivet public attention with their brand of psychodrama is a weapon that will point in all directions.So before News Corporation executives decide to tangle with Ms. Regan in court, perhaps they should remember why they  hired her in the first place.Naama Ashkenazi and David Andrew Bloom were married last evening. Rabbi David Adelson officiated at Loft Eleven, an event space in New York.The bride and bridegroom work in the card division of American Express in New York. She is the director for brand marketing in the small business services unit, and he is a director for restaurant-industry business development in the merchant services unit.Mrs. Bloom, 34, graduated from the University of Wisconsin and received an M.B.A. from Cornell.Her father, Yuval Ashkenazi of Oakland, N.J., works in Roseland, N.J., as the corporate manager for product development at B&G Foods, a manufacturer and distributor in Parsippany, N.J. Her mother, Judith Goldlust of North Caldwell, N.J., retired as the owner of J. C. Travel, a travel agency that was in Paramus, N.J.Mr. Bloom, 36, graduated from Bates College and received an M.B.A. from Cornell.He is the son of Susan F. Bloom and Steven D. Bloom of New York. The bridegroom's mother is a partner in the law firm Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler in New York. His father is a partner, in New York, in the St. Louis law firm Bryan Cave.
