AFTER the last of the college graduates hug teary parents and toss their tasseled caps into the air, universities pass their charges on to employers, who then face the challenge of transforming students into employees.I often wonder how some of my students will fare in the world of work. After 32 years of teaching, I still delight in hearing that a former student who made careless mistakes on exams and could not turn anything in on time has become exceptionally good at his or her job. Each cohort of college students comes with  annoying and admirable attitudes that present challenges and opportunities for their first full-time employers.You know you are getting old  when you find yourself complaining about the way young people work. Every generation does this, so it is doubtful that there ever was a golden age of work when people of all ages shared the same attitudes.The Protestant work ethic said that people should work hard and do the best job possible, regardless of the reward. Martin Luther told us, "All men, whatever their calling, ought to seek perfection in their work." Luther believed that doing quality work helped make you a better person. The traditional work ethic has always been a tall order, especially for those who are more interested in earning enough money to  eat than in attaining perfection.For young adults who have grown up in a society that celebrates consumerism and status, the old work ethic seems hopelessly old-fashioned. Even in college, students seem to value the external rewards of work over learning for its own sake.A 2006 survey of college freshman at the University of California,  Los Angeles, found that  about 74 percent of men and 70 percent of women say that the primary reason they attend college is to make more money. Students reflect this attitude in they way they approach their schoolwork. Most college professors have probably observed at least one of these  traits in today's students:ENTITLED TO A  DO-OVER  It has become common for students to ask to retake tests or to rewrite papers in order to get a better grade. Usually the students who make this request are not failing the course but want to push their grade  to  an A- from a B+.While the apparent desire for self-improvement is admirable, usually the higher grade is what really matters. Sometimes a student's second try is not much better than the first, but he or she still expects a better grade for the effort. This attitude leads to the second problem.CLOCK PUNCHING Students tend to take an industrial view of work. They commonly contest a grade by saying they deserve a higher one because they put so much time into studying or writing a paper. Such students see grades as pay for the time spent on the job, not the quality of the product.THE LAKE EFFECT Like the children in Garrison Keillor's fictitious town of Lake Wobegon, many college students believe that they are above average. This is not entirely their fault, as grade inflation runs rampant in many universities. When professors inflate grades, they give students a misleading picture of how their work stacks up against others, and they deprive students of the feedback they need to improve.These three qualities have positive and negative implications for employers. This year, they plan to hire 17.4 percent more entry-level employees than last year. Recruiting and retaining the best of these  graduates will be a challenge.In response, some employers are trying to Google-ize the workplace. Google lures talented college graduates by creating a perk-filled work environment that looks and feels like a college campus. By getting rid of restrictions like structured office spaces, time clocks and dress codes, a Google-ized workplace eases the transition from college to work.Even so, workers at a company like Google are in a highly competitive environment. Managers probably limit the number of do-overs. The quality of the work is as important as the quantity, if not more so. And some people are clearly better at their jobs than others. Recent graduates soon discover that a high grade-point average may help land them a good job, but it won't help them keep it.Most companies cannot  Google-ize their offices because their business takes place at a certain time, in a certain place, and the culture has no tolerance for flip-flops and Frisbees. Young people have to adjust to the constraints of work.FOR these employers, there is some good news. First, young people are willing to work long hours  — if it pays off. Second, the Googles of the world face the same challenges as everyone else:  how to instill in young people the desire and skill to do a job well. This aspect of the old work ethic doesn't benefit just the employer. Teaching young employees how to find personal gratification in a job well done may also help them become better people and live happier lives.I admire many things about my students  — their idealism, creativity, energy, technological competence, hard work and dizzying sociability  —  but working with them can be trying.For those times, I offer a bit of advice to today's baby-boomer managers. When you are frustrated with a young employee, imagine the pictures of students in your college yearbook and ask yourself this question: Do these people look like they could someday run the world?AFTER the last of the college graduates hug teary parents and toss their tasseled caps into the air, universities pass their charges on to employers, who then face the challenge of transforming students into employees.I often wonder how some of my students will fare in the world of work. After 32 years of teaching, I still delight in hearing that a former student who made careless mistakes on exams and could not turn anything in on time has become exceptionally good at his or her job. Each cohort of college students comes with  annoying and admirable attitudes that present challenges and opportunities for their first full-time employers.You know you are getting old  when you find yourself complaining about the way young people work. Every generation does this, so it is doubtful that there ever was a golden age of work when people of all ages shared the same attitudes.The Protestant work ethic said that people should work hard and do the best job possible, regardless of the reward. Martin Luther told us, "All men, whatever their calling, ought to seek perfection in their work." Luther believed that doing quality work helped make you a better person. The traditional work ethic has always been a tall order, especially for those who are more interested in earning enough money to  eat than in attaining perfection.For young adults who have grown up in a society that celebrates consumerism and status, the old work ethic seems hopelessly old-fashioned. Even in college, students seem to value the external rewards of work over learning for its own sake.A 2006 survey of college freshman at the University of California,  Los Angeles, found that  about 74 percent of men and 70 percent of women say that the primary reason they attend college is to make more money. Students reflect this attitude in they way they approach their schoolwork. Most college professors have probably observed at least one of these  traits in today's students:ENTITLED TO A  DO-OVER  It has become common for students to ask to retake tests or to rewrite papers in order to get a better grade. Usually the students who make this request are not failing the course but want to push their grade  to  an A- from a B+.While the apparent desire for self-improvement is admirable, usually the higher grade is what really matters. Sometimes a student's second try is not much better than the first, but he or she still expects a better grade for the effort. This attitude leads to the second problem.CLOCK PUNCHING Students tend to take an industrial view of work. They commonly contest a grade by saying they deserve a higher one because they put so much time into studying or writing a paper. Such students see grades as pay for the time spent on the job, not the quality of the product.THE LAKE EFFECT Like the children in Garrison Keillor's fictitious town of Lake Wobegon, many college students believe that they are above average. This is not entirely their fault, as grade inflation runs rampant in many universities. When professors inflate grades, they give students a misleading picture of how their work stacks up against others, and they deprive students of the feedback they need to improve.These three qualities have positive and negative implications for employers. This year, they plan to hire 17.4 percent more entry-level employees than last year. Recruiting and retaining the best of these  graduates will be a challenge.In response, some employers are trying to Google-ize the workplace. Google lures talented college graduates by creating a perk-filled work environment that looks and feels like a college campus. By getting rid of restrictions like structured office spaces, time clocks and dress codes, a Google-ized workplace eases the transition from college to work.Even so, workers at a company like Google are in a highly competitive environment. Managers probably limit the number of do-overs. The quality of the work is as important as the quantity, if not more so. And some people are clearly better at their jobs than others. Recent graduates soon discover that a high grade-point average may help land them a good job, but it won't help them keep it.Most companies cannot  Google-ize their offices because their business takes place at a certain time, in a certain place, and the culture has no tolerance for flip-flops and Frisbees. Young people have to adjust to the constraints of work.FOR these employers, there is some good news. First, young people are willing to work long hours  — if it pays off. Second, the Googles of the world face the same challenges as everyone else:  how to instill in young people the desire and skill to do a job well. This aspect of the old work ethic doesn't benefit just the employer. Teaching young employees how to find personal gratification in a job well done may also help them become better people and live happier lives.I admire many things about my students  — their idealism, creativity, energy, technological competence, hard work and dizzying sociability  —  but working with them can be trying.For those times, I offer a bit of advice to today's baby-boomer managers. When you are frustrated with a young employee, imagine the pictures of students in your college yearbook and ask yourself this question: Do these people look like they could someday run the world?IN a tight labor market like this one, making sure you handle departing workers well is good for business — and your remaining employees — HR magazine writes."The way an organization treats exiting staff members is very telling," Gail Gunderson of Ohio State University says in the article by Nancy Hatch Woodward.Employees should be treated as well when they depart as when they were hired, she adds.For one thing, if you treat departing employees with understanding and respect, they may decide to change their minds, no small thing if they are valued employees. For another, parting on good terms could leave the door open to have them return at some point.At the least, they will have positive things to say, and that word of mouth could attract other people. And if employees leave on good terms, they may tell you what it was about working for you that convinced them that they might be happier elsewhere."Communicating with the employee can help you ascertain if there are problems in the workplace that need attention," Ms. Woodward wrote, and that might keep other employees from leaving.BUSY BEES There is no doubt that workers are busier, but are they really more productive?Writing in The Conference Board Review magazine, the management consultant E. J. Heresniak says that may not be the case, arguing that technology has deceived workers into believing that they are getting more done than they actually are."Being constantly interrupted by phone calls, e-mail, text messaging and all the rest certainly keeps you busy," he wrote, "which for some can be terrifically satisfying, but it ain't real work."WORKDAY BUZZ If you find yourself slumping during the workday, it could be that you are following outdated advice, Daryn Eller writes in Prevention.For example, while you may think that a midmorning coffee break is the best time to get a caffeine boost, it is actually better to have your coffee later in the day."Caffeine keeps you operating at a high level by blocking the effects of adenosine, a sleep-inducing brain chemical that accumulates as the day wears on," Ms. Eller writes. By the time adenosine builds up to the point where you start to feel sleepy, usually late in the afternoon, your morning coffee will have worn off.One solution is to  drink two ounces of coffee — about the size of a large shot glass — several times a day.Plus, instead of sleeping longer, "get up at the same time and bathe yourself in light.""You need 30 minutes of exposure to light first thing."If you have to get up when it is dark outside, Ms. Eller suggests buying a light therapy box, "with 20 times the intensity of average indoor lighting, which people use to treat seasonal affective disorder."And forget about loading up on carbohydrates to build  energy."Although they can provide a burst of 'quick burn' fuel, carbohydrates are an energy drain if  you consume too many." A far better plan, she writes, is to follow a healthy diet.TIME OFF The average American gets 14 days of vacation annually, and about this time of year, most people wish they had more time off.One strategy to get it, writes Backpacker, is to ask for more paid time off instead of a raise.MOTHERS' DAYS Citing figures compiled by the Census Bureau and the Center for Work-Life Policy, Women's Health reports that  some 5.6 million mothers stayed home with their children in 2006; that figure was 4.4 million in 1995. Another statistic shows that the percentage of mothers with "graduate or high-honors bachelor's degrees" who have left the work force is  43 percent.FINAL TAKE Here's Marie Claire's "Cubicle Coach" deal-breaker of the month: "Job candidates who send thank-you notes using their current employer's messenger or express-mail account." PAUL B. BROWNCROCS, those funny looking plastic shoes. In-N-Out Burger. Google, back before it became a verb.As Chip Heath and Dan Heath correctly point out in Fast Company   "all businesses today crave the credibility, not to mention the free advertising, that comes from word of mouth."Their advice on how to do it: You need to figure out a way to get your customers to "spark a conversation" about your product, because providing a great product or service is not enough."Ritz-Carlton hotels are undeniably among the best in the world," the Heaths write. "And yet, if you've just returned from a stay at the Ritz, what conversation do you have with your friends? 'The hotel was great — check-in was faster than usual.' Hmm. Better just show vacation photos."In contrast, if you stay at a Doubletree hotel, which is not as upscale at the Ritz, you may leave talking about the fresh-baked cookies they give you at check-in."Call it the 105 percent Rule," they write. "From a word-of-mouth perspective, it's virtually impossible to discuss an experience that is 5 percent better than the norm on all dimensions. People talk about the exceptions, the unexpected, the highlights."Word-of-mouth is not something marketers conjure up."Conversations can't be 'snapped on' after the fact," they add. "You have to plan for them. So what's your plan? How can you give your customers something to talk about?Their takeaway message: "Fostering the conversation you want customers to have about your products should be an explicit part of product development."MONKEY SEE For all their faults, big companies do some things, like advertising and marketing, well. To keep an eye on what is working for them, and therefore what might work for you, periodically check out Mediapost, mediapost.com, which does a good job of tracking what the big boys are doing with both their traditional and online advertising.JUST FOR YUKS "Funny" and "inspirational business book" are two terms that don't usually go together, but Tim Knox has managed to put them together in "Everything I Know About Business I learned From My Mama" (Wiley, $22.95.) While the execution is unusual, Mr. Knox follows the traditional format. He tells you how he grew up poor (in Alabama in his case.) "The white trash looked down on us. (We were considered off-white trash.)" He recounts how he failed in corporate America — don't miss the story about trying to get a light bulb replaced when he worked at Boeing — and eventually found success as an entrepreneur."Now every year I get new tires for my double wide, whether it needs it or not," Mr. Knox says.He offers business tips along the way (for example: "never borrow money from anyone who sits across from you at Christmas dinner"), but the jokes are the real appeal.ABOUT THE MONEY One of the best bits of counsel potential entrepreneurs receive when they are thinking about starting a business is "do what you love; the money will follow."The advice is sound for two reasons. First, if you truly love something then you are bound to do a better job, which will let you attract more customers.And, if you take the opposite approach — and focus on the money — you are bound to take shortcuts, or try to be all things to all people, both of which will hurt your company's performance.Still, few people would object if all their hard work made them rich. While $1 million isn't what it used to be, Kiplinger.com offers a calculator  that shows how long it will take you to save $1 million. (It also shows you what that $1 million will be worth in today's dollars by the time you do.)LAST CALL The folks at Google apparently have a strange sense of funny. Search for "small business Web humor" at google.com and the first thing you are directed to is a series of I.B.M. small business Web seminars  on topics including Building and Maintaining a Successful Business Plan and Outsourcing Your H.R. Management.Maybe it is a techie thing.Rodrigo de Rato, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, will quit his post in October, two years before his term ends, the fund said yesterday, citing "personal reasons."Mr. de Rato, 58, a former Spanish economy minister who has led the  agency, based in Washington, since June 2004, will leave after the annual meetings of the fund and the World Bank, the statement  said.Without elaborating, Mr. de Rato said he was concerned about his children's education."I have the highest regard for this institution, its staff, its role in the global economic architecture and its enviable ability to adapt to changing global circumstances to ensure that it can serve its members effectively," Mr. de Rato also said.His departure means that both the I.M.F. and its sister institution, the World Bank, will have new leadership at a time when some are  questioning their relevance and the demand for loans is waning.Mr. de Rato championed a bigger role for leading developing nations like China to reflect their fast-growing economies, while some European nations were urged to reduce their voting shares. He helped push through the writing off of as much as $57 billion in debt to the poorest countries.At the World Bank, a new president,  Robert B. Zoellick,  takes over next week from Paul D. Wolfowitz. Mr. Wolfowitz quit after a revolt from donor governments and employees over a pay raise for his partner.European Union finance ministers will select an I.M.F.  successor, though none was immediately announced. Under an arrangement that dates to the end of World War II, a European runs the I.M.F. while the United States nominates the head of the World Bank.Bear Stearns moved quickly yesterday to replace a senior executive whose unit ran two hedge funds that nearly collapsed this month because of aggressive bets on mortgage securities.The executive, Richard A. Marin, was succeeded as chairman and chief executive of Bear Stearns Asset Management by Jeffrey B. Lane, a vice chairman at Lehman Brothers and a Wall Street veteran known for his administrative skills.Bear Stearns said Mr. Marin would remain as a special adviser to Mr. Lane. Through a spokesman, Mr. Marin declined to comment.That Bear Stearns is bringing in a new leader for its asset management business, a small but fast-growing division, was not a surprise; executives inside the firm had called the near-collapse of the funds a black eye dealt to the firm's reputation for prudent risk management. What is striking is how quickly the firm moved.In an interview early this week, the chief executive of Bear Stearns, James E. Cayne, described the hedge funds' problem as a "body blow of massive proportions."Mr. Lane, who was approached about the job earlier this week by Warren J. Spector, a president and co-chief operating officer at Bear, knows his new colleagues well. Neuberger Berman, an asset management firm that Mr. Lane previously led, held merger talks with Bear Stearns before it was eventually acquired by Lehman Brothers in 2003.Shares of Bear Stearns, which until recently had performed better than those of other investment banks, have fallen 6.7 percent in the last two weeks. They closed down 2.8 percent, or $4, to $140 yesterday.In addition to Mr. Marin, questions have arisen about  Ralph R. Cioffi, the manager of the two hedge funds that had borrowed more than $10 billion to invest in complex securities that trade infrequently and are hard to value.In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Lane said that Mr. Cioffi was still with the firm and working with Thomas Marano, the head of the firm's mortgage business and a respected trader, to help unwind the two funds in an orderly manner."Everybody is an employee at will," Mr. Lane said,  "and there is never too much talent at the company."The Securities and Exchange Commission has also started an informal inquiry into issues surrounding the Bear hedge funds and how the industry is valuing mortgage-related securities like those that Bear holds.Though Bear and its executives had only invested $40 million of their own money in the fund, the firm was compelled to initially pledge a $3.2 billion credit line to rescue the older of the two funds when lenders demanded more collateral to secure their loans.  The bank later reduced that amount to $1.6 billion.Investors had also sought to redeem their stakes in the fund, but they have been unable to do so since May.Yesterday's announcement came after a day after reports that Mr. Marin maintained a personal blog, on which he described the efforts to save the two funds, which had borrowed billions of dollars from other investment banks, as "trying to defend Sparta against the Persian hordes of Wall Street."Mr. Lane, 65, a native of Brooklyn and a first lieutenant in the Army, worked his way up on Wall Street, holding several administrative and managerial roles. Under his leadership, Neuberger, which for most of its history was a private partnership known for its mutual funds, went public and sold itself for $2.6 billion to Lehman Brothers.Some analysts said yesterday that Mr. Lane would bring a steady hand to Bear Stearns Asset Management, which had set an aggressive goal to account for 10 percent of the firm's revenue by 2010.But Mr. Lane, who for the last four years has not been involved in day-to-day management of a business at Lehman, said he was not interested in baby-sitting a child suffering from growing pains. He said he expected to expand the business through acquisitions."I don't think anybody here is interested in retreating," he said. "From adversity comes opportunity. This is a great franchise, and we are going to move forward."WASHINGTON, June 24 —  For years, rumors of corruption surrounded an ambitious World Bank project for a system of reservoirs and water tunnels in the mountains of Lesotho in southern Africa. In 2002, the project director was convicted of graft and sent to jail.But it took the bank another four years to bar two engineering companies that were convicted on bribery charges from getting future contracts, during which time they collected $14 million in fees from the bank.Combating corruption was a signature issue for Paul D. Wolfowitz in his two stormy years as bank president. Last year, he hailed the belated blacklisting of the companies on the Lesotho project as helping to ensure "that precious public resources go to help the poor, for whom they are intended."But the corruption issue was also a source of anger at the bank that contributed to Mr. Wolfowitz's forced resignation last month amid charges of favoritism toward his girlfriend, who had worked for the bank. Some bank officials fear, and others hope, that with his departure the issue will fade. All indications are, however, that his successor, Robert B. Zoellick, will not let that happen."Corruption is a cancer that steals from the poor, eats away at governance and moral fiber and destroys trust," Mr. Zoellick said.  "The challenge is how best to clean corruption out. That's what the World Bank must diagnose, determine and execute in concert with developing and developed countries."[On Monday, Mr. Zoellick, 53, was elected president of the World Bank and will formally take over on Sunday.]As chief of the bank, which is charged with helping poor nations develop their economies and improve social conditions, Mr. Zoellick will face the challenge of repairing shattered relationships within the institution and between management and the board, which represents the countries that contribute to its operations. He will also need to raise about $30 billion from those countries to rebuild the bank's program of providing interest-free loans to the world's poorest countries.Mr. Zoellick has vowed in private meetings to press an anticorruption agenda but also to avoid Mr. Wolfowitz's mistakes, like cutting off money and punishing poor people dependent on bank programs in countries that happen to be poorly governed, bank officials said.Mr. Zoellick, a former top trade envoy and deputy secretary of state under President Bush, said he believed that much of the controversy under Mr. Wolfowitz  swirled around the perception that he cared more about corruption than about fighting poverty. In addition, Suzanne Rich Folsom, who was appointed by Mr. Wolfowitz to run the office of institutional integrity, has drawn fire for her management style.Under Ms. Folsom's leadership, the department received a 50 percent increase in funding and an expanded mandate to investigate corruption cases. Defenders of Ms. Folsom said that it was inevitable that she would be unpopular, while critics said she had trampled on employee rights and had been selective in her inquiries."There are definitely tensions in the system," Mr. Zoellick said in an interview. "What I've found is a high degree of distrust over the real purpose of the anticorruption campaign. Our challenge now is to find real guidelines that can restore everyone's trust and assure governments that the bank is not wasting money."How much corruption exists is a matter of conjecture. A former top official, requesting anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject, estimated that it might affect as many as 40 percent of bank projects, at least in small ways. Others said the money lost to graft might not be more than a small share of the bank's lending.No one disputes that in its 60-year existence, the bank did not do much about corruption until a decade ago, when  James D. Wolfensohn, who was then the bank president, made combating it a priority.The department of institutional integrity was established only seven years ago. It has barred 148 individuals and 190 companies from doing business with the bank. In an institution that employs 10,000 workers, 74 employees have been cited for cases of fraud and corruption.In recent years, the bank has gone beyond specific cases and started investigations into pervasive corruption problems in Vietnam, Indonesia, Kenya, Cambodia and India.In India, for example, the investigation persuaded Mr. Wolfowitz to slow three projects worth nearly $700 million that combated tuberculosis and provided maternal and child health care. The inquiry found bid-rigging in procurement of pharmaceuticals that appeared to have been condoned, or to have involved, top government officials.But when Mr. Wolfowitz suspended funding for these programs, some officials in the bank and at the British development office, which was a  co-sponsor of the health projects, protested that innocent sick people would suffer. They forced a rewriting of the rules curbing the ability of the bank president to suspend funding unilaterally.Mr. Wolfowitz also angered colleagues at the World Bank when he suspended funding for Uzbekistan over allegations of human rights abuses. Some officials said  that he was influenced by Uzbekistan's decision to bar American warplanes from its airspace.In Vietnam, the bank's integrity division decided to investigate pervasive corruption problems after a scandal last year involving charges of theft, bribery and nepotism in a road-building project. Vietnamese prosecutors charged that road-building money lined the pockets of officials and also went to pay for gambling and prostitutes.The institutional integrity reviews, however grounded in realities, have left a legacy of tension between the anticorruption investigators and the rest of the bank. Many officials at the bank said that some of their colleagues believed that minor graft was a small price to pay to speed vitally needed programs for the poor."Relations between the bank staff and the department have really soured in the last two years," said a former top official of the institutional integrity unit. "There is a lot of pushback from everyone at the bank, because of the us-against-them attitude created by Wolfowitz."Christopher B. Burnham, a former United Nations under secretary general for management, said that Mr. Zoellick must figure out how to enlist suspicious bank officials in his agenda. "International bodies operate by consensus," Mr. Burnham said. "He has to bring everybody along with him."Mr. Zoellick has not signaled his intentions about Ms. Folsom's office, according to bank officials, other than to say that he has learned of the distrust between her and others. For example, the bank's staff association, which represents the bulk of its employees, has accused her office of trampling on the rights of employees and investigating some unfairly.In addition, the bank's 24-member board has raised concerns about what directors say is a backlog of uncompleted investigations and a decline in the number of cases closed.In an interview, Ms. Folsom said that in the last two years the department had moved to "a new level of processing cases," overhauling its procedures, including a program for companies and individuals to disclose graft voluntarily to avoid even harsher sanctions.Still, she said, "this department has been unpopular since its creation seven years ago.""This type of department is always going to be unpopular. There are going to be some people who just don't want to be bothered."Ms. Folsom's defenders include Mr. Wolfensohn, the former bank president, who enlisted her as an adviser long before Mr. Wolfowitz put her in charge of the integrity unit.In an interview, Mr. Wolfensohn praised Ms. Folsom as an "extraordinarily competent" official who had been "unnecessarily damaged" by the controversy surrounding Mr. Wolfowitz."The fact is, there is corruption in all international aid activities," Mr. Wolfensohn said. "It's not a surprise that in some countries, it becomes excessive and you shouldn't do business with them."The furor over Ms. Folsom, and Mr. Wolfowitz's actions following her findings, led last year to the establishment of an outside review of the anticorruption efforts by a group headed by Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman. The review is to be completed by September, prompting speculation at the bank that it might lead to Ms. Folsom's departure.But Mr. Volcker said in an interview that he did not expect the review to single out individual performances."We'll be drawing some conclusions, but we're not going to point fingers at particular individuals," Mr. Volcker said in an interview.Mr. Wolfensohn said that he had conferred at length with Mr. Zoellick and that he believed the new president seemed to be going about the issue in the right way."He is already reaching out," Mr. Wolfensohn said. "He understands that you have to return the bank to its main thrust, which is development on behalf of the poor."As one of the elements, you want to combat corruption," Mr. Wolfensohn added. "But you can't make the bank into the attorney general of the world."Caren Beth Lee, the daughter of Nancy B. Lee and Dr. Douglas S. Lee of Setauket, N.Y., is to be married today to Jeremy Lee Caplan, a son of Brenda Caplan and Dr. Louis R. Caplan of Chestnut Hill, Mass. Rabbi Martin S. Cohen is to perform the ceremony at the Shelter Rock Jewish Center in Roslyn, N.Y.The bride, 25, teaches history  at Mamaroneck High School in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She graduated  from Brown and received a master's degree from Columbia in teaching English to speakers of other languages. Her father, an obstetrician and gynecologist, is a partner in Suffolk OB/GYN, a group medical practice in Port Jefferson, N.Y.The bridegroom, 32, is a business and technology reporter for Time magazine in New York. He graduated cum laude from Princeton and is to become a Knight-Bagehot fellow in economics and business journalism at Columbia next month. His father is a neurologist who sees patients at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and is a professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School, both in Boston.
