SENIOR managements that focus on immediate results have been blamed for ethical lapses and shortchanging  their companies' future. But that may be only the start of the story.Magazines as diverse as The Harvard Business Review and Entrepreneur are running articles  this month saying that the focus on immediate results  is also responsible for stifling creativity and impeding the development of future executives.The allure of achieving a huge financial payoff fairly quickly can cause  managers  to focus on the wrong thing, Mark Henricks writes in Entrepreneur.Company founders may end up focusing on the needs of the venture capitalists or spend more time than they should tailoring their company to be attractive to a potential acquirer, instead of focusing on the needs of their customers, he says.In addition, "businesses that are founded and managed with the objective of getting funded during a hot market may also suffer from creativity hamstrung by the need for speed," Mr. Henricks writes.The founders may rush so quickly to market — in trying to become attractive enough to Wall Street to hold an initial public offering or to lure a potential acquirer — that their best ideas may not be given time to develop.Joseph L. Bower, a professor of management at Harvard Business School, contends that this short-term focus also hurts  the development of  the next generation of managers."Too many companies have over the past two decades ignored the hard work of building future leaders, while senior executives have focused increasingly on meeting the next quarter's earnings targets," he writes in The Harvard Business Review.Professor Bower argues that it takes years to develop the next generation of leaders, and companies need to give them the time and opportunity to try new ideas.Companies, he contends, must find a way to balance "the need to meet short-term expectations with the need to invest over the long term in the development of the organization's people." ON SECOND THOUGHT The  banking secrecy laws are far more likely to ensnare innocent people than catch terrorists as they were supposed to do, according to Ibrahim A. Warde, who teaches international business at Tufts University.Writing in Worth magazine, Mr. Warde says the stringent bank reporting laws passed after the Sept. 11 attacks may have been well intended, but they  do not work."In reality, terrorism is neither costly nor driven by financial profit," he writes. "The Sept.  11 terrorists needed only $300,000 to cause massive destruction; the London subway attacks of July 2005 cost less than $1,000."Mr. Warde says that by law  banks in the United States must notify the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, part of the Treasury Department, of any cash transaction exceeding $10,000 or any transaction that seems inconsistent with the way a client normally does business.They do so by filing what is known as a suspicious activity report."It is estimated that more than one million SARs are now filed every year in the United States at an annual cost of $8 billion to banks," Mr. Warde wrote. "Most of the reports go unread and unprocessed. Furthermore, there is no evidence that a single act of terror was foiled through information disclosed in those reports."In contrast, he points out, former Senator Bob Dole and Frank C. Carlucci, a former deputy director of the Central Intelligence Agency, have been the subject of  SARs filed by their banks.FINAL TAKE It is always intriguing to watch whether a new word, or a specific industry's jargon, will become widely accepted.Jonathon Keats writing in Wired has identified four letters that may have traction: bacn.Bacn, a noun, is "spam by request.""Bacn (pronounced 'bacon') is a byproduct of legitimate e-mail lists and feeds — bulk messages for which the recipient has signed up yet never has time to read."PAUL B. BROWNPALMETTO BAY, Fla. — Charles R. Williams stood near the glass sliding doors in his home south of Miami and pointed out parts of the ceiling and walls that had crumpled after Hurricane Andrew ripped open the roof 15 years ago.The visible damage from that storm, one of the worst of the century, has largely disappeared. But Mr. Williams and homeowners nationwide are still feeling its effect in their pocketbooks.The storm stunned insurance companies and, after paying out more than $22 billion in claims in inflation-adjusted dollars, they began rewriting policies to protect themselves as much as homeowners. They also developed computer programs intended to limit payouts on claims.As a result, American homeowners are having to make do with much less coverage at steadily rising prices. In Miami and other places along the coast, insurance prices have skyrocketed, deepening the national slowdown in home sales.The insurers say they have had to take defensive measures to stay in business and pay claims as operating costs have climbed. "If you're being overly generous in covering risks and you're not taking in sufficient premium, it doesn't make business sense," said Richard Ward, the chief executive of Lloyd's of London, a large insurer of homes and businesses in the United States.Yet some industry experts and consumer advocates say that efforts by the insurers to increase profits, after years of taking losses on home insurance, are shifting more of the burden of repairs and reconstruction to homeowners. The cutbacks in coverage, consumer advocates say, have contributed to the slow recovery of the Gulf Coast from Hurricane Katrina and will most likely hamper recovery from the recent wildfires in California."You have a different mentality at the insurance companies," said Andrew Barile, a consultant who has spent his life in the industry. "They no longer worry about the public service aspect. They're concentrating on the bottom line."The bottom line has been good recently. The property insurance industry, including home, auto and commercial coverages, reported a record profit of $44 billion in 2005, even after paying $41 billion in damages from Katrina. The industry set another record for profit in 2006 at $64 billion. And as a second hurricane season is coming to an end without a hurricane hitting the coasts, 2007 is shaping up to be another lucrative year.The changes in insurance coverage have been gradual. They are spelled out in the revised policies. But few homeowners read their policies, and they are often unaware that coverage has been reduced until they are faced with making repairs or rebuilding their homes. In most of the country, reduced coverage is much more of a burden than rising premiums.Ten years ago, for example, the average cost of home insurance in America was $455 a year.Today, it is an estimated $886 for much less insurance. Along the coastlines, annual premiums on houses routinely run into the thousands of dollars. Contending that even those premiums are not high enough for the risk they face, the insurers have canceled or declined to renew several million policies.Two years ago, the annual cost of coverage for Mr. Williams, a retired airline pilot, and his wife, a former flight attendant, rose more than 50 percent to $2,599, for about $250,000 in coverage.The insurers say they have tried to strike a balance that works for them and their customers. "What insurers have tried to do," said Robert P. Hartwig, the president and chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, "is to sell policies that provide people with coverage for the vast majority of losses they are likely to suffer at an affordable price.""A policy that covered every peril would be unaffordable for many if not most people," Mr. Hartwig said.Before Andrew, the insurers sold home insurance as a loss leader and loaded the policies with lavish benefits to attract customers for their car insurance and to build up capital in their investment portfolios."It was a kind of avuncular, sleepy line of business," said William R. Berkley, the chief executive of W. R. Berkley, a commercial insurer in Greenwich, Conn. "Then losses started to outstrip even what investment income might have been able to make up."In those days, the standard home policy promised to pay for the replacement of a destroyed home, regardless of the cost. Now most policies pay the insured value of a house and up to about an additional 25 percent — which is often not enough to rebuild, as many victims of the recent wildfires in California are discovering.As an example, a typical policy for a home valued at $300,000 usually pays up to $375,000.One home destroyed by the California fires, for example, was insured for $4 million. The insurer, Chubb Insurance, estimated that rebuilding would cost $6 million, or 50 percent more than it was insured for. But Chubb is one of the few insurers still offering full replacement coverage.By issuing full replacement policies, the risks of higher reconstruction costs and underestimates on home values fell on the insurance company. Now most companies put the risk on the homeowner.In much of Miami and along the coast, the insurance companies no longer provide coverage for the most costly threat to homes: damage from hurricanes and other high winds. Now, Florida and several other states have created state-run insurance companies to provide the coverage.Insurers that still sell policies against wind damage impose deductibles of at least 2 percent and as much as 5 percent, which is another way of reducing coverage. On a $300,000 home with a 5 percent deductible, the homeowner pays for the first $15,000 in damage, compared with the once standard deductible of $500.After  Katrina, the reductions in coverage and the insurers' reluctance to pay claims contributed to thousands of lawsuits and out-of-court disputes and made it difficult for many to rebuild.Flooding was extensive along the Gulf Coast. The insurers do not cover flood damage, and their policies say so. But most policies also contain clauses that rule out payment for wind damage that occurs in combination with flooding.Many homeowners could not accept that flooding caused by hurricane winds could cancel out the battering by high winds that their homes suffered for hours before the water arrived. And they took their insurers to court. But a federal appeals court recently ruled that the insurers were within their rights to deny payments in those circumstances.Besides many angry customers, the insurers are facing federal and state investigations and a lawsuit by the attorney general in Louisiana into their coverage and claims-paying practices.In a lawsuit filed  this month, Charles C. Foti Jr., the attorney general in Louisiana, accused State Farm, Allstate and other insurers of using computer programs to gain "an unjust advantage over policyholders" in calculating premiums and paying claims. Private lawyers in Louisiana have filed similar lawsuits based on the testimony of former claims adjusters."The idea that insurers conspired to limit claims is completely without merit and unsubstantiated," Mr. Hartwig said.The insurers say they have resolved 99 percent of the 1.2 million claims from Katrina for damage to homes and that most people are satisfied. Most of the complaints, they say, have not been related to reductions in coverage but have resulted from expectations of homeowners that insurance policies would cover flood damage.Many people, Mr. Hartwig said, are "searching for ways to fill the economic gap" created by Hurricane Katrina. "But," he said, "the gap principally boils down to two words: flood insurance. If there had been 100 percent penetration of flood insurance, we wouldn't be having this conversation."Tightening coverage and claims payments have produced spectacular results for the insurers, as shown in an economic snapshot of their performance in home insurance in 1992, the year of Andrew, and in 2005, the year of  Katrina.In 1992, the companies collected $20.5 billion in premiums and reported a pretax loss of $11.8 billion on home insurance, not counting earnings from investments, according to A. M. Best, an insurance rating agency. In 2005, the home insurers took in $52.2 billion in premiums and reported a pretax loss of $643.6 million; losses had been cut to a sliver of sales. In 2005, with investment earnings of $1.9 billion, the home insurers had a net gain, before taxes, of $1.3 billion.One measure of the new efficiency of the home insurance business is its ratio of claims expenses to premiums. In the year of Hurricane Andrew, the industry paid out $1.27 for every dollar of premium it collected. In 2005, the year of the more destructive Hurricane Katrina, the insurers paid out 71.50 cents for every dollar of premium."I could understand it if the insurance companies were cutting back on coverage, lowering their costs and passing on some of the savings to homeowners," said J. Robert Hunter, the director of Insurance at the Consumer Federation of America. "But they've hollowed out their policies and they're keeping the benefits for themselves."The insurers say that in a time of more powerful and more frequent hurricanes, they have to tailor their coverage and prices for overwhelming jolts. The huge increase in condo towers and homes along the coasts, they say, have multiplied their potential losses."I guarantee you," Mr. Berkley said, "as we move down the line, the profits you're seeing in the business today are going to take a significant hit."One meteorological wobble," he said of Hurricane Dean, which tore through the Caribbean and Mexico in August, and the storm "would have hit Miami. And that's a $100 billion hit."In Anchorage early in October, the doors opened onto a soaring  white canvas dome with room for a soccer field and a 400-meter track. Its prime-time hours are already rented well into 2011.Nearby is a cold-storage facility leased to Sysco, a giant food-distribution corporation, and beside it is a warehouse serving a local contractor and another food service company.The entrepreneur behind these businesses is the ChangePoint ministry, a 4,000-member nondenominational Christian congregation that helped develop and finance the sports dome. It has a partnership with Sysco's landlord and owns the warehouse.The church's leaders say they hope to draw people to faith by publicly demonstrating their commitment to meeting their community's economic needs."We want to turn people on to Jesus Christ through this process," said Karl Clauson,  who has led the church for more than eight years.Among the nation's so-called megachurches — those usually Protestant congregations with average weekly attendance of 2,000 or more — ChangePoint's appetite for expansion into many kinds of businesses is hardly unique. An analysis by The New York Times of the online public records of just over 1,300 of these giant churches shows that their business interests are as varied as basketball schools, aviation subsidiaries, investment partnerships and a limousine service.At least 10 own and operate shopping centers, and some financially formidable congregations are adding residential developments to their holdings. In one such elaborate project, LifeBridge Christian Church, near Longmont, Colo., plans a 313-acre development of upscale homes, retail and office space, a sports arena, housing for the elderly and church buildings.Indeed, some huge churches, already politically influential, are becoming catalysts for local economic development, challenging a conventional view that churches drain a town financially by generating lower-paid jobs, taking land off the property-tax rolls and increasing traffic.But the entrepreneurial activities of churches pose questions for their communities that do not arise with secular development.These enterprises, whose sponsoring churches benefit from a variety of tax breaks and regulatory exemptions given to religious organizations in this country, sometimes provoke complaints from for-profit businesses with which they compete — as ChangePoint's new sports center has in Anchorage.Mixed-use projects, like shopping centers that also include church buildings, can make it difficult to determine what constitutes tax-exempt ministry work, which is granted exemptions from property and unemployment taxes, and what is taxable commerce.And when these ventures succeed — when local amenities like shops, sports centers, theaters and clinics are all provided in church-run settings and employ mostly church members — people of other faiths may feel shut out of a significant part of a town's life, some religion scholars said.Precedents in HistoryChurches have long played an economic role. Medieval monasteries in Europe and Japan were typically hubs of commerce. In the United States, many wealthy denominations have long had passive investments in real estate. And churches, like labor unions and other nonprofit groups, have been involved in serving immigrants, the elderly and the poor.But the expanding economic life of today's giant churches is distinctive. First, they are active in less expected places: in largely flourishing suburbs and barely developed acreage far beyond cities' beltways and in communities far from the Southern Bible Belt with which they are traditionally associated. And in most cases — as at ChangePoint in Anchorage — these churches say their economic activities are not just an expression of community service but, more important, an opportunity to evangelize. The sports dome, for example, is a way to draw the attention of young families to the church's religious programs."We don't look at this as economics; we look at it as our mission," Pastor Clauson said.Scott L. Thumma, a pioneer in the study of megachurches at the Hartford Institute for Religion Research at the Hartford Seminary in Connecticut, whose roster of churches was the basis for the Times analysis, said he has noticed churches that sponsor credit unions, issue credit cards and lend to small businesses.Although community outreach is almost always cited as the primary motive, these economic initiatives may also indicate that giant churches are seeking sources of revenue beyond the collection plate to support their increasingly elaborate programs, suggested Mark A. Chaves, a religious sociologist at Duke University.Investing Capital Assets Also feeding this wave of economic activity is the growing supply of capital available to religious congregations.The Evangelical Christian Credit Union in Brea, Calif., a pioneer in lending to churches and a proxy for this market shift, has seen its loan portfolio grow to $2.7 billion, from just $60 million in the early 1990s, said Mark A. Johnson, its executive vice president. Where bankers were once reluctant to lend to churches, the credit union now shares a market with some of the nation's largest banks.ChangePoint paid $1 million upfront and borrowed $23.5 million from a state economic development agency to buy a defunct seafood-packaging plant and warehouse out of foreclosure in July 2005. To do so, it formed a partnership with the for-profit owner of the cold-storage unit surrounded by the seafood plant's land. An affiliated nonprofit is developing the sports dome with a gift of $4 million worth of church land. The church controls these entities directly or through board appointments, said Scott Merriner, executive pastor and a former McKinsey consultant.Pastor Clauson acknowledged that a few local businessmen who own sports facilities have complained about the subsidized competition they face from The Dome, a nonprofit organization. It is an issue the church takes seriously, he said."We don't want to be taking bread off of people's tables," the pastor said.But the sports dome "is scratching such an enormous proverbial itch, there is no way we're harming anyone," he said, adding,  "There is more than enough need to go around."Martin McGee, the Anchorage municipal assessor, acknowledged that the property poses an assessment challenge. Land and floor space used only by the church are exempt, he said, but the rest of the seafood plant site is taxable, and the tax treatment of the sports dome site is still under review.The tax issues will be even more complex for a megachurch project in Charlotte, N.C. There, the University Park Baptist Church paid $11.5 million late last year to buy the Merchandise Mart, a half-million-square-foot office and exhibition space.Some 57 percent of the space will ultimately be remodeled for church use, but the rest will bring new business activity to the neighborhood, said Claude R. Alexander Jr., the church's lead pastor who also serves on the board of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.His church has left its economic mark on the neighborhood it will leave behind when it moves to the mart. With its traffic added to that of another megachurch a few miles away, a once-quiet intersection between the two churches has recently seen the construction of fast-food outlets and other businesses.The traffic is unlikely to ease when University Park moves. The other nearby megachurch, the Friendship Missionary Baptist Church, already has zoning approval for Friendship Village, a complex of shops, apartments, homes, offices and housing for the elderly on 108 acres off Charlotte's beltway.According to Tom Flynn, the economic development officer for Charlotte, University Park's purchase of the Merchandise Mart already has prompted interest in older properties nearby.A Complex Tax Challenge The church, which formed a for-profit property management unit that also includes a small limousine service, envisions a mixture of commercial and religious uses at its new site — with its own share of the space beginning around 38 percent and rising over time.What's a poor tax assessor to do?The entire site is currently taxable, said Alonzo Woods, the church's director of operations. But when the church moves in, it will seek exemptions for areas used "strictly for church purposes."Churches are moving into residential development, as well. Windsor Village United Methodist Church, one of two churches that own shopping centers in Houston, is teaming up with a national home builder to develop more than 460 homes in the southwestern section of the city.And in Dallas, The Potter's House, a 30,000-member church established by Bishop T.D. Jakes, is the linchpin in an economic empire that includes Capella Park, a community of 266 homes.Just how far-reaching the megachurch economy can become is clear at the First Assembly of God Church in Concord, a small community northeast of Charlotte. Under the umbrella of First Assembly Ministries are the church, with 2,500 in weekly attendance; a 180-bed assisted-living center; a private school for more than 800 students; a day-care center for 115 children; a 22-acre retreat center; and a food service — all nonprofit. In addition, there is WC Properties, a for-profit unit that manages the church's shopping center, called Community at the Village, where a Subway outlet, an eye-care shop and other businesses share space with church programs that draw traffic to the mall.Doug Rieder, the church business administrator, said WC Properties files a federal tax return and pays property taxes on the commercial space at the mall.But Mr. Rieder acknowledged the difficulty of allocating space, staff time and expenses to the appropriate tax category. "We're very intertwined — it gets tough day to day," he said adding, "I have to constantly ask myself whether I am accurately allocating our costs."Concord was delighted to have First Assembly as the new landlord at the mall once anchored by Wal-Mart."That's a very crucial crossroads for the city," said W. Brian Hiatt, the city manager. "And the church has been a great partner."Another contribution the church makes to the city is a free daylong celebration it holds on Independence Day, complete with fireworks.Mr. Hiatt said no one seemed to find it awkward for a church to conduct the community's celebration marking the birth of a country committed to separation of church and state."It was a very positive event," he said.Mr. Rieder, the church business manager, paused when asked whether people of other faiths would have felt comfortable at the event."We try not to discriminate in doing community service," he said. "There are Muslims and other non-Christians here, of course. And we do want to convert them, no doubt about it — that's our mission. We don't discriminate, but we do evangelize."The same quandary confronts Pastor Clauson in Anchorage. "There is nothing inherently alienating about what we're doing economically," he said. "An Orthodox Jewish youngster or a conservative Muslim child encountering our programs would find zero intimidation."Nor does he want his community to become divided along religious lines, he said. But at the same time, "we definitely want to use these efforts as an open door to the entity that we feel is the author and creator of abundant life — Jesus."He added, "It's a tough balancing act."Bernard B. Kerik fully repaid a $250,000 personal loan cited in his recent federal indictment  days after city investigators  began asking about it in 2005, according to people who have been briefed on the transaction.Federal prosecutors have not alleged that anything about the loan itself was improper. But they charged in a 16-count indictment unsealed two weeks ago   that Mr. Kerik had failed to disclose it to the federal government as required after the White House appointed him to train the Iraqi police in 2003.The loan allegation was one of the few surprises in the indictment, which charged Mr. Kerik with tax evasion and fraud largely in connection with previously known financial transactions. In filing the charges, prosecutors with United States attorney's office declined to identify a "wealthy Israeli industrialist" said to have financed the loan or to name the "Brooklyn businessman" said to have served as an intermediary in the transaction, referring to them only as John Doe No. 7 and John Doe No. 8.But interviews with people who have been briefed on the transaction  indicate that the industrialist was an Israeli billionaire and philanthropist, Eitan Wertheimer, whose family's vast holdings include companies with United States Defense Department contracts. The Brooklyn businessman was Shimon Cohen, a marble and stone merchant who has been a friend of Mr. Kerik's for several years.Mr. Wertheimer and Mr. Cohen, who have not  been accused of any wrongdoing, declined to speak about the loan or the reasons it was made to Mr. Kerik.Two years ago, though, Mr. Cohen was interviewed by city investigators and described the 2003 loan as an informal transaction. He said that in handing the money over, he had not discussed any interest with Mr. Kerik nor set any timetable for repayment, according to people  briefed on his account of the loan and Mr. Cohen's lawyer.Nonetheless, on June 10, 2005, nine days after Mr. Cohen's conversation with city investigators, Mr. Kerik paid back the loan in full, with interest.Mr. Kerik's lawyer, Kenneth M. Breen, of Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker L.L.P., declined last week to answer questions about the loan or to explain why Mr. Kerik would have paid interest he might not have owed.As spelled out in the indictment, Mr. Kerik has accepted financial help from several friends over the years. The loan to Mr. Kerik came in June 2003 when he was on leave from his job at Giuliani Partners, the consulting firm of former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, and serving in Iraq as an adviser to the Interior Ministry  for the Coalition Provisional Authority. In that post, which he held for three months, Mr. Kerik was assigned to train the Iraqi police.At the time, his wife, Hala, was home preparing to renovate a  house the couple had bought in Franklin Lakes, N.J. The $250,000 loan to Mr. Kerik was provided in a personal check written by Mr. Cohen to Mr. Kerik's wife, according to Mr. Cohen's lawyer, Mark M. Altschul, and the people  briefed on the account Mr. Cohen provided to investigators. Mr. Altschul said there was no written agreement that outlined the terms of the loan.The indictment says that the money actually came from the wealthy industrialist, from whom Mr. Cohen had borrowed the funds. Prosecutors have not offered any explanation as to what might have brought about  the transaction, or why Mr. Wertheimer did not provide the funds directly.According to Mr. Cohen's 2005 interview with city investigators, Mr. Cohen has known Mr. Kerik for several years, having been introduced by a friend in common, Nathan Berman, a real estate developer who has also lent  Mr. Kerik money.Mr. Wertheimer met Mr. Kerik through Mr. Cohen, a longtime friend, according to associates, and the two spent  time together during Mr. Kerik's trip to Israel in August 2001. Later that year, as he left his New York City police post, Mr. Kerik handed out 19 gold and blue enamel badges that declared the recipients "Honorary Police Commissioners," and Mr. Wertheimer received one, as did Mr. Berman and Judith Regan, then Mr. Kerik's lover and publisher. The real estate developer Steven C. Witkoff, who is listed in the indictment as John Doe No. 5, who paid more than $236,000 in rent for Mr. Kerik from 2001 to 2003, also received one of the badges.In Israel, Mr. Wertheimer serves as chairman of Iscar Ltd., a privately held metal cutting tool business that is one of Israel's largest companies and one that sold 80 percent of its stock last year  to Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway. The indictment referred to him as an industrialist whose companies "did business with the federal government."Questions about the loan first arose in 2005 as part of an investigation being conducted by the Bronx district attorney's office and New York City's Department of Investigation. That inquiry ultimately led Mr. Kerik to plead guilty last year to two unrelated misdemeanor charges in state court. He admitted that he had failed to report having accepted renovations to his Bronx apartment that were paid for by a company seeking a city license and that he had failed to report a loan from Mr. Berman.Investigators noticed the Cohen transaction in reviewing Mr. Kerik's financial records, and Robert C. Joyce, a Department of Investigation assistant commissioner, asked about it during the June 1, 2005, interview with Mr. Cohen, according to Mr. Altschul and a person who has been briefed on the session.Mr. Cohen acknowledged the loan in the interview but did not note during the conversation that he had, in turn, borrowed money from Mr. Wertheimer to cover it, according to the person who was briefed.At the time, Mr. Kerik had not made any payments on the loan. But financially, he was in a much better place than he had been as a city official. In addition to his earnings as a member of Giuliani Partners, he had received more than $6 million through the sale of stock in Taser, a company on whose board of directors he served.Nine days after Mr. Cohen's interview, Mr. Kerik paid off the loan.A spokeswoman for Giuliani Partners said that the company had not had any business relationship with any of Mr. Wertheimer's companies during the time Mr. Kerik was affiliated with the business. Mr. Kerik left the consulting company directed by Mr. Giuliani in 2004, after his nomination to be the federal Homeland Security secretary  was withdrawn.NEW Yorkers who remember Rudy Giuliani as the  bullying New York mayor, not as the terminally cheerful "America's Mayor" cooing to babies in New Hampshire, have always banked on one certainty: his presidential candidacy was so preposterous it would implode before he got anywhere near the White House.Surely, we reassured ourselves, the all-powerful Republican values enforcers were so highly principled that they would excommunicate him because of his liberal social views, three wives and estranged children. Or a firewall would be erected by the firefighters who are enraged by his self-aggrandizing rewrite of 9/11 history. Or Judith Giuliani, with her long-hidden first marriage and Louis Vuitton 'tude, would send red-state voters screaming into the night.Wrong, wrong and wrong. But how quickly and stupidly we forgot about the other Judith in the Rudy orbit. That would be Judith Regan, who disappeared last December after she was unceremoniously fired from Rupert Murdoch's publishing house, HarperCollins. Last week Ms. Regan came roaring back into the fray, a silver bullet aimed squarely at the heart of the Giuliani campaign.Ms. Regan filed a $100 million lawsuit against her former employer, claiming she was unjustly made a scapegoat for the O. J. Simpson "If I Did It" fiasco that (briefly) embarrassed Mr. Murdoch and his News Corporation. But for those of us not caught up in the Simpson circus, what's most riveting about the suit are two at best tangential sentences in its 70 pages: "In fact, a senior executive in the News Corporation organization told Regan that he believed she had information about Kerik that, if disclosed, would harm Giuliani's presidential campaign. This executive advised Regan to lie to, and to withhold information from, investigators concerning Kerik."Kerik, of course, is Bernard Kerik, the former Giuliani chauffeur and police commissioner, as well as the candidate he pushed  to be President Bush's short-lived nominee to run the Department of Homeland Security. Having pleaded guilty to two misdemeanors last year, Mr. Kerik was indicted on 16 other counts by a federal grand jury 10 days ago, just before Ms. Regan let loose with her lawsuit. Whether Ms. Regan's charge about that unnamed Murdoch "senior executive" is true or not  —  her lawyers have yet to reveal the evidence   —  her overall message is plain. She knows a lot about Mr. Kerik, Mr. Giuliani and the Murdoch empire. And she could talk.Boy, could she! As New Yorkers who have crossed her path or followed her in the tabloids know, Ms. Regan has an epic temper. My first encounter with her came more than a decade ago when she left me a record-breaking (in vitriol and decibel level) voice mail message about a column I'd written on one of her authors. It was a relief to encounter a more mellow Regan at a Midtown restaurant some years later. She cordially introduced me to her dinner companion, Mr. Kerik, whose post-9/11 autobiography, "The Lost Son: A Life in Pursuit of Justice," was under contract at her HarperCollins imprint, ReganBooks.What I didn't know then was that this married author and single editor were in pursuit of not just justice, but sex, too. Their love nest, we'd later learn, was an apartment adjacent to ground zero that had been initially set aside for rescue workers. Mr. Kerik believed his lover had every moral right to be there. As he tenderly explained in his acknowledgments in "The Lost Son"  —  published before the revelation of their relationship  —  there was "one hero who is missing" from his book's tribute to "courage and honor" and "her name is Judith Regan."Few know more about Rudy than his perennial boon companion, Mr. Kerik. Perhaps during his romance with Ms. Regan he talked only of the finer points of memoir writing or about his theories of crime prevention or about his ideas for training the police in the Muslim world (an assignment he later received in Iraq and botched). But it is also plausible that this couple discussed everything Mr. Kerik witnessed at Mr. Giuliani's side before, during and after 9/11. Perhaps he even explained to her why the mayor insisted, disastrously, that his city's $61 million emergency command center be located in the World Trade Center despite the terrorist attack on the towers in 1993.Perhaps, too, they talked about the business ventures the mayor established after leaving office. Mr. Kerik worked at Giuliani Partners and used its address as a mail drop for some $75,000 that turns up in the tax-fraud charges in his federal indictment. That money was Mr. Kerik's pay for an 11-sentence introduction to another Regan-published book about 9/11, "In the Line of Duty." Though that project's profits were otherwise donated to the families of dead rescue workers, Mr. Kerik's royalties were mailed to Giuliani Partners in the name of a corporate entity Mr. Kerik set up in Delaware. He would later claim that he made comparable donations to charity, but the federal indictment charges that $80,000 he took in charitable deductions were bogus.Amazingly, given that he seeks the highest office in the land, Mr. Giuliani will not reveal the clients of Giuliani Partners. Perhaps he has trouble remembering them all. He testified in court last year that he has no memory of a mayoral briefing in which he was told of Mr. Kerik's association with a company suspected of ties to organized crime.Ms. Regan's knowledge of Mr. Giuliani isn't limited to whatever she learned from Mr. Kerik. She used to work for another longtime Giuliani pal, Roger Ailes, the media consultant for the first Giuliani campaign in 1989 and the impresario who created Fox News for Mr. Murdoch in 1996. A full-service mayor to his cronies, Mr. Giuliani lobbied hard to get the Fox News Channel on the city's cable boxes and presided over Mr. Ailes's wedding. Enter Ms. Regan, who was given her own program on Fox's early lineup. Mr. Ailes came up with its rather inspired first title, "That Regan Woman."Who at the News Corporation supposedly  asked Ms. Regan to lie to protect Rudy's secrets? Her complaint does not say. But thanks to the political journal The Hotline, we do know that as of the summer Mr. Giuliani had received more air time from Fox News than any other G.O.P. candidate, much of it on the high-rated "Hannity & Colmes." That show's co-host, Sean Hannity, appeared at a Giuliani campaign fund-raiser this year.Fox News coverage of Ms. Regan's lawsuit last week was minimal. After all, Mr. Giuliani dismissed the whole episode as "a gossip column story," and we know Fox would never stoop so low as to trade in gossip. The coverage was scarcely more intense at The Wall Street Journal, whose print edition  included no mention of the suit's reference to that "senior executive" at the News Corporation. (After bloggers noticed, the article was amended online.) The Journal is not quite yet a Murdoch property, but its editorial board has had its own show on Fox News since 2006.During the 1990s, the Journal editorial board published so much dirt about the Clintons that it put the paper's brand on an encyclopedic six-volume anthology titled "A Journal Briefing —  Whitewater." You'd think the controversies surrounding "America's Mayor" are at least as sexy as the carnal scandals and alleged drug deals The Journal investigated back then. This month a Journal reporter not on its editorial board added the government of Qatar to the small list of known  Giuliani Partners clients, among them the manufacturer of OxyContin. We'll see if such journalism flourishes in the paper's Murdoch era.But beyond New York's dailies and The Village Voice, the national news media, conspicuously the big three television networks, have rarely covered Mr. Giuliani much more aggressively than Mr. Murdoch's Fox News has. They are more likely to focus on Mr. Giuliani's checkered family history than the questions raised by his record in government and business. It's astounding how many are willing to look the other way while recycling those old 9/11 videos.One exception is The Chicago Tribune, which last month on its front page revisited the story of how, after Mr. Giuliani left office, his mayoral papers were temporarily transferred to a private, tax-exempt foundation run by his supporters and financed with $1.5 million from mostly undisclosed donors. The foundation, which shares the same address as Giuliani Partners, copied and archived the records before sending them back to New York's municipal archives. Historians told The Tribune there's no way to verify that the papers were returned to government custody intact. Mayor Bloomberg has since signed a law that will prevent this  unprecedented deal from being repeated.Journalists, like generals, love to refight the last war, so the unavailability of millions of Hillary Clinton's papers has received all the coverage the Giuliani campaign has been spared. But while the release of those first lady records should indeed be accelerated, it's hard to imagine many more scandals will turn up after six volumes of "Whitewater," an impeachment trial and the avalanche of other investigative reportage on the Clintons then and now.The Giuliani story, by contrast, is relatively virgin territory. And with the filing of a lawsuit by a vengeful eyewitness who was fired from her job, it may just have gained its own reincarnation of Linda Tripp.For more than three months, as turmoil in the credit market has swept wildly through Wall Street, one mighty investment bank after another has been brought to its knees, leveled by multibillion-dollar blows to their bottom lines.And then there is Goldman Sachs.Rarely on Wall Street, where money travels in herds, has one firm gotten it so right when nearly everyone else was getting it so wrong. So far, three banking chief executives have been forced to resign after the debacle, and the pay for nearly all the survivors is expected to be cut deeply.But for Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, this is turning out to be a very good year. He will surely earn more than the $54.3 million he made last year. If he gets a 20 percent raise — in line with the growth of Goldman's compensation pool — he will take home at least $65 million. Some expect his pay, which is directly tied to the firm's performance, to climb as high as $75 million.Goldman's good fortune cannot be explained by luck alone. Late last year, as the markets roared along, David A. Viniar, Goldman's chief financial officer, called a "mortgage risk" meeting in his meticulous 30th-floor office in Lower Manhattan.At that point, the holdings of Goldman's mortgage desk were down somewhat, but the notoriously nervous Mr. Viniar was worried about bigger problems. After reviewing the full portfolio with other executives, his message was clear: the bank should reduce its stockpile of mortgages and mortgage-related securities and buy expensive insurance as protection against further losses, a person briefed on the meeting said.With its mix of swagger and contrary thinking, it was just the kind of bet that has long defined Goldman's hard-nosed, go-it-alone style.Most of the firm's competitors, meanwhile, with the exception of the more specialized Lehman Brothers, appeared to barrel headlong into the mortgage markets. They kept packaging and trading complex securities for high fees without protecting themselves against the positions they were buying.Even Goldman, which saw the problems coming, continued to package risky mortgages to sell to investors. Some of those investors took losses on those securities, while Goldman's hedges were profitable.When the credit markets seized up in late July, Goldman was in the enviable position of having offloaded the toxic products that Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, UBS, Bear Stearns and Morgan Stanley, among others, had kept buying."If you look at their profitability through a period of intense credit and mortgage market turmoil," said Guy Moszkowski, an analyst at Merrill Lynch who covers the investment banks, "you'd have to give them an A-plus."This contrast in performance has been hard for competitors to swallow. The bank that seems to have a hand in so many deals and products and regions made more money in the boom and, at least so far, has managed to keep making money through the bust.In turn, Goldman's stock has significantly outperformed its peers. At the end of last week it was up about 13 percent for the year, compared with a drop of almost 14 percent for the XBD, the broker-dealer index that includes the leading Wall Street banks. Merrill Lynch, Bear Stearns and Citigroup are down almost 40 percent this year.Goldman's secret sauce, say executives, analysts and historians, is high-octane business acumen, tempered with paranoia and institutionally encouraged — though not always observed — humility."There is no mystery, or secret handshake," said Stephen Friedman, a former co-chairman and now a Goldman director. "We did a lot of work to build a culture here in the 1980s, and now people are playing on the balls of their feet. We just have a damn good talent pool."That pool has allowed Goldman to extend its reach across Wall Street and beyond.Last week, John A. Thain, a former Goldman co-president, accepted the top position at Merrill Lynch, while a fellow Goldman alumnus, Duncan L. Niederauer, took Mr. Thain's job running the New York Stock Exchange. Another fellow veteran trader, Daniel Och, took his $30 billion hedge fund public.Meanwhile, two Goldman managing directors helped bring Alex Rodriguez back to the Yankees, a deal that could enhance the value of Goldman's 40 percent stake in the YES cable network — which it is trying to sell — while also pleasing Yankee fans. The symmetry was perfect: like the Yankees, Goldman, more than any other bank on Wall Street, is both hated and revered.Robert E. Rubin, a former Goldman head, is the new chairman of Citigroup. In Washington, another former chief, Henry M. Paulson Jr., is the Treasury secretary, having been recruited by Joshua B. Bolten, the White House chief of staff and yet another former Goldman executive.The heads of the Canadian and Italian central banks are Goldman alumni. The World Bank president, Robert B. Zoellick, is another. Jon S. Corzine, once a co-chairman, is the governor of New Jersey. And in academia, Robert S. Kaplan, a former vice chairman, has just been picked as the interim head of Harvard University's $35 billion endowment.Since going public in 1999, Goldman has been the No. 1 mergers and acquisitions adviser, globally and in the United States, with two exceptions: in 2005 it came in second in the United States rankings, and in 2000 it lost the top spot globally. In both instances, Morgan Stanley took the lead, according to Dealogic.Goldman, of course, has made its share of mistakes. It took among the most serious write-downs in the third quarter on loans that were made to private equity firms, totaling $1.5 billion. The firm runs one of the largest hedge fund operations in the world, but its flagship funds — funds whose investors include marquee Goldman clients and employees — have had two years of abysmal performance. Clients are expected to redeem billions of dollars of capital at the end of 2007.But Goldman's absence from the mortgage debacle and the strong performance of its other businesses made up for the write-down associated with the loans. The firm reported $2.85 billion in profit in the third quarter, up 79 percent. Mr. Moszkowski estimates that  investment and commercial banks in the United States have taken $50 billion in write-downs related to mortgages, with more coming; Mr. Blankfein said at a conference last week that he expected to take none.Goldman's business is built on taking risks, both for itself and its clients. In recent years, Goldman has established the largest private equity and real estate fund complexes in the world. That has led to natural tensions with private equity clients who sometimes complain, but never publicly, about Goldman's common insistence to team up with them for a piece of the deal."Goldman has done the best job of any firm in the U.S. or world competing with their clients but doing business with them," said one client who asked not to be named because he does business with the firm. "They've managed to get their clients to live with it."Still, this bottom-line approach has turned off some Goldman veterans and clients. They see the firm's desire to advise, finance and invest — a so-called triple play — as antithetical to Goldman's stated No. 1 business principle of putting clients first.And there is little question that its success in trading, investment banking and servicing hedge funds — many of the traders come right from Goldman — allows the firm a bird's-eye view on trends and capital flows in the market.Numerous Goldman investment bankers, former and current, voice the view that Mr. Blankfein's approach — using Goldman's investment banking business to develop principal investment opportunities for the firm — creates a brand intended to feed Goldman's profits rather than relationships. But this harking back to the firm's golden days as a pure advisory firm does not find much sympathy at Goldman these days."I have little patience for these people who talk of the last days of Camelot," Mr. Friedman said. "Principal investing has been an important and useful business. If you want to be relevant you have to anticipate where the world is going."Mr. Blankfein, at the conference last week, echoed that sentiment. "While the integration of our investment banking operations with our merchant bank was somewhat controversial at the time, we felt these businesses were mutually reinforcing," he said.Money soothes a lot of concerns, of course, and Goldman has had plenty to spread around. Through the third quarter, Goldman's $16.9 billion compensation pool — the money it sets aside to pay its employees — was significantly bigger than the entire $11.4 billion market capitalization of Bear Stearns.Goldman executives and analysts assign much of their success to smart people and a relatively flat hierarchy that encourages executives to challenge one another. As a result, good ideas can get to the top.But the differentiator that has become clearest recently is the firm's ability to manage its risks, a tricky task for any bank. Checks and balances must be in place to turn off a business spigot even as it is still making a lot of money for a lot of people. In a world where power gravitates to the rainmakers, that means only management can empower the party crashers.At Goldman, the controller's office — the group responsible for valuing the firm's huge positions — has 1,100 people, including 20 Ph.D.'s. If there is a dispute, the controller is always deemed right unless the trading desk can make a convincing case for an alternate valuation. The bank says risk managers swap jobs with traders and bankers over a career and can be paid the same multimillion-dollar salaries as investment bankers."The risk controllers are taken very seriously," Mr. Moszkowski said. "They have a level of authority and power that is, on balance, equivalent to the people running the cash registers. It's not as clear that that happens everywhere."For all its success on Wall Street, it is Goldman's global reach and political heft that inspire a mix of envy and admiration. In the race for president, Goldman Sachs executives are the top contributors to Barack Obama and Mitt Romney, and the second highest contributor to Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mr. Blankfein has held a fund-raiser for Mrs. Clinton in his apartment and has come out publicly in her favor.Another member of Goldman's influential diaspora is Philip D. Murphy, a retired executive who is the chief fund-raiser for the Democratic National Committee.All of which has made Goldman a favorite of conspiracy theorists, columnists and bloggers who see the firm as a Wall Street version of the Trilateral Commission.One particular obsession is President Bush's working group on the markets, an informal committee led by Mr. Paulson that includes Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve; Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and Walter Lukken, the acting chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.The group meets about once a quarter — privately, with no minutes taken — to ensure that government agencies are briefed on market conditions and issues. The group is currently examining the extent to which the packaging and distribution of mortgage loans contributed to the crisis. It also recently completed a study recommending that hedge funds not be subject to further regulation; the group's  fund committee was led by Eric Mindich, a former Goldman trader who now runs a successful hedge fund.There is no evidence that the conduct of the group is anything but above board. But to some, the group's existence adds more color to the view that Goldman is indeed everywhere — much as J. P. Morgan was in the early years of the 20th century."Goldman Sachs has as much influence now that the old J. P. Morgan had between 1895 and 1930," said Charles R. Geisst, a Wall Street historian at Manhattan College. "But, like Morgan, they could be victimized by their own success."Mr. Blankfein of Goldman seems aware of all this. When asked at a conference how he hoped to take advantage of his competitors' weakened position, he said Goldman was focused on making fewer mistakes. But he wryly observed that the firm would surely take it on the chin at some point, too."Everybody," he said, "gets their turn."
