BETWEEN the endless security lines, crowded planes and ever-increasing flight delays, air travel has never seemed more difficult.But it can be less expensive, Erik Torkells and Brad Tuttle write in Budget Travel, providing you are willing to do some work."The best price is out there somewhere, and there is no one simple way to track it down," they write. "Start with the meta-search engines like Kayak and SideStep, which scour multiple sites for flights, hotels, cruises and car rentals."Once you have found a good deal, grab it: and then keep looking, they suggest, since prices for hotel rooms, air fares and rental cars constantly fluctuate."Just make sure the cancellation policy," spelled out on your initial reservation, "won't bite you in the rear."One tip is to delete the "cookies" in your Web browser that tell a travel site you have been there before. That way they will treat you as a new customer each time you visit. (The "help" section of your browser will tell you how to make the cookies go away.)And you don't have to search for fares at a certain time, they write. Urban legend has it that Tuesday after midnight is when airlines release their best fares. The magazine says, "That's hogwash."One last tip: "Members of loyalty programs get better service, fewer hassles, less paperwork and great freebies and perks," the magazine writes. "So, before you reserve anything (hotel, airline, rental car, etc.) join the loyalty club, even if you're only planning on doing business with the company a single time."FREQUENT FLYING It is not your imagination. It is harder to redeem your frequent-flier miles."Although the airlines do not disclose the percentage of passengers who have tried unsuccessfully to redeem miles for a ticket, the most recent data provided by the six largest carriers shows that most of them are issuing fewer tickets in exchange for miles," William J. McGee writes in Condé Nast Traveler.The magazine offers tips for getting the most out of those miles.In addition to the usual advice to use the same airline each time you fly, so you don't disperse your miles, the need to be flexible when it comes to your travel dates, and the suggestion you consider traveling in the off-season, it adds:¶Think. "A mile is worth about 1.2 cents, so multiply that by the number of miles required to determine the price of an award ticket." You don't want to burn miles if the flight is relatively inexpensive.¶Do the math. Given that business or first class can cost 10 times   an economy ticket, "you'll often get a better per-mile value by upgrading than by redeeming miles for a ticket."¶Be first. "When your airline announces a new route, use miles to fly there, since there are sure to be empty seats available."HEDGE HYPE A typical boom-to-bust path goes like this: A new investment strategy is developed; it works initially; a handful of people make a lot money; that attracts media attention; as a result people flock to the investment; underwriters take the idea public, which attracts the masses just in time to lose money.Are hedge funds following this script? Those who believe so need to look no further than Worth, which reports that people with no previous experience as large-scale investors — the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Richard C. Breeden; the former secretary of state, Madeleine Albright; and the CNBC television reporter Ron Insana  — have started, or have plans to start, hedge funds.All three declined interviews for the article."At the end of 2006, nearly 9,500 hedge funds existed worldwide, nearly quadruple the number 10 years ago, according to industry data provider Hedge Fund Research," John Ferry writes. FINAL TAKE From the "do as I say not as I do" department, Corporate Counsel writes that when it surveyed the general counsels of the Fortune 250  — the people who are charged with making sure their companies obey the law  — it found eight, or better than 3 percent, who "were not properly licensed in the state in which they work."PAUL B. BROWNPeopleCharles S. Warren has joined the law firm of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel as a partner and chairman of the environmental section. He was a  regional administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.Synde B. Keywell joins the international law firm of Bryan Cave as a partner in the Chicago office's commercial litigation and bankruptcy section.Kevin J. Sullivan will join Sovereign Bank as a senior vice president, overseeing the government banking unit. The bank also appointed Rosalin Acosta as managing director of the wealth management division.Evercore Partners announced that Stephen P. Schaible will join the firm's advisory business as a senior managing director in September. He was a managing director at Citigroup.Catherine Blanc has joined the wealth management unit of Barclays as an emerging markets specialist director in London. She had been at HSBC Private Bank.Jason Kelley has joined Apollo Real Estate Advisors as a vice president, working on Apollo's real estate debt investment activities.Deutsche Securities, a unit of the German bank, appointed Orlando Faulks as head of corporate research in Japan. He succeeds Fumiaki Sato.JPMorgan Chase has hired Mehmet Abbasoglu as a client coverage investment banker for telecommunications, media and technology companies in the Middle East. He will be based in London.Dan O'Regan has joined the accounting firm Ernst & Young as lead procurement partner in its business advisory services practice. He joins from Accenture.Emmanuel Regniez has joined Lehman Brothers Holdings as a managing director in the investment banking division. He had been with Credit Suisse Group.PricewaterhouseCoopers announced that Hank Mlynarski has joined the firm as a managing director within its advisory practice.Deutsche Bank has hired Peter Stein from Bear Stearns to trade agency collateralized mortgage obligations.Q. I have music in my MP3 collection that doesn't fall into the standard categories that iTunes provides. Is there a way to make my own music genres within the program?A. User-friendly jukebox programs like iTunes, Windows Media Player and Yahoo MusicMatch give you plenty of ways to label, organize and sort your digital music files so you can find them on both your computer and on your portable music player of choice.When you convert a CD's tracks into smaller files for use with your computer and portable player, many jukebox programs download the title, artist and other data over the Internet from Gracenote (formerly CDDB), or a similar online database of CD track information. This saves you the trouble of typing all that in by yourself, but there are sometimes spelling errors or other mistakes in the track names, and you may even disagree with the designated genre. Many people, for instance, would put Dusty Springfield into "Pop," instead of the "Easy Listening" category where her music is sometimes assigned.Digital audio files like those in the MP3, WMA or AAC formats store this track information in a data "tag" that is embedded with the music file itself.You can usually edit the text and images contained in the tag from within your jukebox software or with a program commonly called an "MP3 tag editor."You can create customized genre labels in iTunes by clicking on an album or song title in the iTunes browser window or, using the keyboard, press Control-B in Windows or Command-B on a Mac if the browser isn't showing.Then press Control-I (Windows) or Command-I (Mac) to bring up the Get Info box, which displays all the track label information. In the Genre area of the box, click on the tab for the drop-down menu and go to Custom. Here, you can type in your genre of choice to reclassify an album or song to "zydeco" or "klezmer" or "Celtic" from the more generic "world." Click the O.K. button when finished.PeopleCharles S. Warren has joined the law firm of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel as a partner and chairman of the environmental section. He was a  regional administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.Synde B. Keywell joins the international law firm of Bryan Cave as a partner in the Chicago office's commercial litigation and bankruptcy section.Kevin J. Sullivan will join Sovereign Bank as a senior vice president, overseeing the government banking unit. The bank also appointed Rosalin Acosta as managing director of the wealth management division.Evercore Partners announced that Stephen P. Schaible will join the firm's advisory business as a senior managing director in September. He was a managing director at Citigroup.Catherine Blanc has joined the wealth management unit of Barclays as an emerging markets specialist director in London. She had been at HSBC Private Bank.Jason Kelley has joined Apollo Real Estate Advisors as a vice president, working on Apollo's real estate debt investment activities.Deutsche Securities, a unit of the German bank, appointed Orlando Faulks as head of corporate research in Japan. He succeeds Fumiaki Sato.JPMorgan Chase has hired Mehmet Abbasoglu as a client coverage investment banker for telecommunications, media and technology companies in the Middle East. He will be based in London.Dan O'Regan has joined the accounting firm Ernst & Young as lead procurement partner in its business advisory services practice. He joins from Accenture.Emmanuel Regniez has joined Lehman Brothers Holdings as a managing director in the investment banking division. He had been with Credit Suisse Group.PricewaterhouseCoopers announced that Hank Mlynarski has joined the firm as a managing director within its advisory practice.Deutsche Bank has hired Peter Stein from Bear Stearns to trade agency collateralized mortgage obligations.So I went to Chicago this week to see Sam Zell, the billionaire real estate mogul who not all that long ago sold one of his major holdings, Equity Office Properties Trust, to the Blackstone Group for $39 billion.In all of human history, there has never been a larger private equity deal. But was I interested in interviewing him about this great triumph? Nah. As a cog in the wheel of the struggling newspaper industry, I wanted to hear what Mr. Zell had to say about his recent — how to describe it? "Takeover?" "Bear hug?" "Assumption of control?"— of the Tribune Company, owner of The Chicago Tribune, The Los Angeles Times, a handful of  television stations and the Chicago Cubs, among other assets.As Zell deals go, this hardly ranks among his biggest; he's putting up a "mere" $250 million to gain control of a company with $5.5 billion in revenue last year. But what it lacks in economic heft, it more than makes up for in complexity. When the deal closes, probably at the end of the year, the Tribune Company will go from being a public company to a private S corporation, meaning it will pay no corporate taxes. Its sole owner will be an employee stock ownership plan, which is essentially a fund, owned by employees, which owns the company's stock. ESOPs also pay no taxes, meaning that both the company and its owner will no longer be taxpayers. Mr. Zell, who will become chairman of the company, will immediately recoup his $250 million and then reinvest an additional $315 million (don't ask). He'll have an option to buy 40 percent of the company for another $500 million to $600 million. (If he does so, he will become the one taxpayer in the deal.)The Tribune Company will be laden with debt, $13 billion in all, which it plans to pay down in part with the extra cash flow that is generated from not having to pay taxes. If the company does well — or even just decently — everyone will make out, starting with the employees whose stock in the ESOP will be worth a lot more than $28 a share, the discounted price the ESOP paid for it.But if it continues to sink — and just this week, the Tribune Company announced that May revenue fell 11.1 percent — then the company could wind up in default, which would hurt everyone, starting, again, with the employees, who would lose the value of their ESOP shares.This state of affairs means that all hands at the Tribune Company  have a powerful incentive to figure out some way to stop the bleeding, and start growing again. And all of us who work at the country's other newspaper companies, which are also bleeding to greater or lesser degrees, have a rooting interest in  Tribune's experiment. Which is not to say we all ought to be racing to set up ESOPs. As is so often the case, one man's meat is another man's poison.A VISIT to Mr. Zell's Chicago office is always a bit of a trip. A short gruff man with a trim white beard, Mr. Zell, 65, tends toward gold chains, brightly colored shirts and jeans. He is joyously blunt-spoken and quite funny. And his office is festooned with extravagant music boxes he designs each year and sends out at Christmastime. Last year's version, for instance, features a Frank Sinatra soundalike singing lyrics, written by Mr. Zell, that lampoon Sarbanes-Oxley, while two sculptured hands moved forward, as if to throttle American capitalism. (You can see and hear most of the collection at www.yegsz.com; it's worth a visit for the sheer entertainment value.)But back to the Tribune Company. The newspaper industry, as has been documented ad nauseum, is hurting because the Internet has wreaked havoc on its business model. The once-lucrative classified ad business has been largely destroyed, while circulation has fallen sharply as people have either stopped reading the paper, or taken to reading it online free. Advertising on the Internet, meanwhile, generates only a fraction of the revenue that ads in a newspaper bring in. The trick, which no one has yet solved, is to figure out how to grow as readers and ads continue to gravitate to the Internet.As it turns out, Mr. Zell doesn't have a silver bullet either. He seemed to take the view, for instance, that all it would take for the Tribune Company to start generating more ad revenue was a smarter advertising sales approach. And while he said he had ideas he wasn't ready to unveil until the transaction closed, he didn't seem to believe, as so many do (myself included), that the news business is going to have to find a different model if it hopes to thrive again. "It is a 160-year-old business that has a lot of history and an opportunity to do a much better job," he said, speaking of the Tribune Company.Mr. Zell also made it plain that he did the deal not because he harbored some deep feelings about the role of newspapers in a democracy, but because he was getting a good asset on the cheap. "I looked at this as a business transaction," he told me.  "That's just who I am. My entry point is $34 a share"— and that low price is why he jumped in.  (The ESOP trustee negotiated the lower $28 a share for the employees.) He was just doing what he's done his entire career: buying an out-of-favor asset.What most seemed to excite him was the ESOP itself. And why not? As the Lehman Brothers tax expert Robert Willens said, "He is using it in a way that no one has ever done before." Mostly, ESOPs are set up when family owners want to cash out of privately held companies and turn them over to their employees. Mr. Zell, by contrast, is using it to buy out the shareholders of a large public corporation —and turn it into a tax-free private company."If I do it right," Mr. Zell said, "the Tribune will offer a new kind of example. If I can get people to focus on the fact that they own it, we can make progress towards creating value." He continued: "Being a private company will be beneficial." Righting the ship, he thought, would be easier if the Tribune Company no longer had to worry about the pressures of Wall Street.In that case, I asked him, should Dow Jones and The New York Times Company —two companies where revenue and the stock price have declined in recent years —follow him into ESOP-ville? More broadly, if going private made sense for the Tribune Company, did it therefore make sense for other media companies? This is an idea that gets talked about a lot these days among journalists, who fear that the nonstop cost-cutting demanded by Wall Street will damage even the best newspapers — and who see private ownership as a panacea.Mr. Zell quickly dismissed Dow Jones from the discussion; its "point of entry" was too high, thanks to Rupert Murdoch's $60-a-share offer. But for the Times Company, and many other media companies with depressed stock prices, it might well make sense, he said.But I'm not so sure. The notion of taking a struggling company private is an appealing one on the surface. Brian Tierney, the Philadelphia advertising executive who led a consortium of local investors who bought The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Daily News from Knight Ridder last year, told me that running them as a private enterprise has made a world of difference. "We are spending $14 million to boost marketing and circulation," he said. "Knight Ridder spent $300,000. If we were publicly traded, we couldn't do this." Of course, going private didn't prevent Mr. Tierney from calling for big layoffs when the papers turned in some dismal numbers shortly after he took them over.The truth is, the problem is the same for all newspaper companies, whether private or public. They all have to continue groping toward an uncertain future until they find a way to start growing again. If they don't,  they're doomed. "Badly run newspapers will fail," said Merrill Brown, a media industry consultant. The Tribune Company may no longer have to face pressure from Wall Street, but it is going to have an enormous amount of debt to service, and that is going to create short-term pressure at least as onerous as anything Wall Street could devise.However much Mr. Zell admires his ESOP, it's worth remembering that the Tribune Company acted out of desperation. It had put itself up for sale and had come up empty. Other newspapers companies, despite their problems, aren't in the same dire place. In the case of The New York Times Company — which has been facing off with an activist investor from Morgan Stanley, who has gained considerable support for his view that the company needs to do much more to bolster its share price — the company has a different kind of shield. Its supervoting Class B shares are held by a family, the Sulzbergers, that is completely united in its desire to continue to own the company, and to see it through to better times.As infuriating as it may be to the company's public shareholders, that unity offers just as much insulation as Mr. Zell's ESOP — without the burden of all that ESOP debt. At Dow Jones, the company ran out of time when the controlling Bancroft family became divided. Indeed, the pressure of the public marketplace might actually be a net plus for the Times Company, because it means that management is constantly being reminded that it doesn't have time to waste in finding ways to start growing. Otherwise it will end up in the same place as Dow Jones. As it turns out, there are worse fates than having to deal with Wall Street analysts."Quality and profitability go hand in hand," Katharine Graham used to say. These days, that notion is precisely what's in question — and what is so scary to so many in the newspaper business. If Sam Zell can use an ESOP to prove her right, God bless him. But until then, I'm not jumping on the ESOP bandwagon.The latest dogfight in the highly competitive airline industry is for bragging rights to the best night's sleep in the sky.When British Airways spent £200 million in 2000 ($300 million) to become the first international airline with seats that convert to completely flat six-foot beds, it set off  the seat wars. Now the conflict has escalated, with dozens of airlines rushing to market with their version of seats that "transform your journey into a moment of sublime relaxation and comfort," as Thai Airways promises in its Royal Silk business class.But unless fliers can see through the marketing smoke and decipher airline terminology, it is difficult to make well-informed booking decisions, experts say.The first step is knowing that while  "lie-flat seats" and  "flat-bed seats" sound like different ways of saying the same thing, they are not. Understanding the distinction could save you from spending upward of $8,000 on a night of fitful sleep.  "There's so much airline marketing-speak that even educated buyers are not sure what their options are," said Susan Daimler, vice president of marketing for SeatGuru.com, which evaluates airline seats through customer feedback.Adding to the obfuscation, there is no standard system for measuring seat width, angle or legroom, and the Federal Aviation Administration has no jurisdiction over plane seats, "so we are left to trust the airline and rely on anecdotal evidence by customers," said Matthew J. Bennett, an  airline seat expert who publishes {cq}First Class Flyer, a newsletter and Web site.Interest in seats that become beds has grown  with the size of planes. The bigger the planes, the longer they can fly  —  consider Singapore Airlines' 18-hour nonstop route from Los Angeles to Singapore on an Airbus A340-500, which can accommodate 313 — and the more critical the need for a comfortable space to lay one's head for six or seven hours of  sleep.And while airlines promote the bells and whistles  in the expensive real estate at the front of the plane — replete with complimentary second helpings on gourmet food,  multichannel entertainment centers, even massages — airline executives know that solid sleep is still the most valuable commodity they can offer."It doesn't take too many of those 16-hour international long-haul flights, after which you're expected to walk almost immediately into a meeting, to get how important that seat is," said John Lampl, vice president for communications at British Airways.Ms. Daimler advised travelers to learn the vocabulary and then realize that some words may not match their meaning. According to SeatGuru.com,  the "recliner" seat back goes as far as 160 degrees from the seat base. The "lie-flat seat" does not actually lie flat. While marketed as having 180 degrees of recline, in its fully reclined position it is slightly angled. Some go back as far as 172 degrees. The "flat-bed seat" goes to a full 180-degree (horizontal) position when fully reclined.Using arcane and often inconsistent measurement systems, airlines further obscure what passengers can expect when they take a seat. Airlines define the distance from any point on one seat to the same point on the seat in front as "pitch," which translates roughly to legroom, though how much room there actually is depends on the length of the passenger's legs. Seat width is typically the distance between armrests on a seat or waist area; more and more airlines taper the width toward the legs, an adjustment their research shows provides more comfort during sleep.A Web site that evaluates seats, called Flatseats.com,  lists seat pitches for about 160 airlines worldwide. In one of the toughest head-to-head seat skirmishes, Virgin Atlantic Airways and British Airways have sidestepped the legroom problem in their top class by positioning the seats so they angle toward the aisle in a herringbone pattern. Virgin Atlantic's head-to-toe seat length is 79.5 inches (it has only Upper Class seating); British Airways' is 72 inches in business class and 78 inches in first class. In width, Virgin offers 22 inches, and British Air  measures 25.25 at the waist.While flat-bed seats recline 180 degrees,  the bed is not  parallel to the floor,  leaving the passenger's head higher than his feet.  "Airlines conveniently do not report this angle of incline," Mr. Bennett said. "But that tilt dictates how far you will slide off your seat."Mr. Bennett suggested a flier's decision should depend on three variables: the quality of the airline, the type of aircraft and, for those who track  frequent-flier miles, the alliance team of the airline. The availability of the better seats changes  even on the same routes depending  whether the plane is, for example, an Airbus A340-600 or a Boeing 747.SeatGuru.com currently lists Air New Zealand, Virgin Atlantic, South African Airways, British Airways, Singapore Airlines and Air Canada as companies offering flat-bed seats in first and business class on some but not all of their international flights. But smaller airlines are entering the fray.For example, two years ago the tiny Eos Airlines, an all-premium airline that flies only between New York and  London, knew it had to build a better flat bed, said its founder and chief strategist, David Spurlock. With research showing that passengers had "zero tolerance for angled seats," he rejected off-the-shelf seats that  cost  $25,000 to $45,000 each. Instead, he  oversaw the  design of  a patented flat-bed seat."No matter how much you invest in creating a premium experience, at the end of the day and especially through the night, if you don't get a comfortable sleep, the perception of service comes down a notch," he said.Among the findings that surprised him was how much the seat foam affects comfort. The density, thickness and contour that make a seat comfortable will make a bed uncomfortable. Mr. Spurlock  said that research showed that  passengers want soft seats that are not contoured to their body from the waist up.Virgin Atlantic solved the problem of making one piece of furniture serve two purposes with the touch of a button. The passenger stands up, presses the button and the seat back electronically flips to become a flat bed. The seat side is contoured and covered in soft leather; the reverse is built of firm foam.How airlines differentiate their seats from their competition's "is so important these days that it drives their brand strategy," said Michael B. Baughan, president of B/E Aerospace, a company that  has designed and built seats for dozens of airlines.There is a tension between the consumer's  demand for  space and the airline's desire to install  as many seats as possible. Mr. Baughan said the angled lie-flat seat permits airlines to  "save some space, but  flat beds repeatedly perform the best."In any case, a flier like Ron Cucos is the seat designer's worst nightmare. "Just put it this way —  the world of air travel was not built for people my size," said Mr. Cucos, 54, a stagehand in Manhattan who at 6 feet 5 inches has to duck to keep from hitting his head on overhanging TVs."My knees either stab into the backrest of the person in front of me or stab my own chin," he said. Whenever he flies, he takes an Ambien to help him sleep, he said.In 2004,  he flew business class to Johannesburg on South African Airways, which at the time had lie-flat seats. "It was comfortable enough for me to lie with my knees a little bent," he said. But when he flew again after the airline upgraded to flat-bed seats, he experienced what he called "a true in-flight spiritual epiphany — who knew a guy even my size could sleep at 35,000 feet?"  Even so, he said, he still takes an Ambien.Near the end of his new memoir, Jack Valenti, who died at 85 on April 26, tells how he planned to take an active role in marketing his work. "Spend time with the booksellers," one friend had counseled him. "If they like you and your book, you're on your way to the best-seller list." Valenti did "not intend to ignore" the advice. Fate finally had other plans, but it's nice to know that the author took his deeply ingrained optimism all the way to the grave. "This Time, This Place" is a cheerful, overwritten double feature, the story of Valenti's days in Lyndon B. Johnson's White House — an experience it's safe to say only he could describe as the "summertime" of a life — and his long subsequent lobbying years as chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America.Raised in the Italian and Greek First Ward of Houston, Valenti watched his grocer grandfather practice local politics and made his own first speech at the age of 10, advocating the re-election of Sheriff T. A. Binford, "an imposing 6 feet 4 inches tall, with a pair of pearl-handled .45 six-shooters slung low from holsters on his waist." Getting an early start on both of his future careers, Valenti worked as a movie usher during high school and got himself elected class president as a night student at the University of Houston. A daytime job at Humble Oil gave him some early exposure to advertising, before the war intervened and he found himself training for the 51 combat missions he would fly in a B-25. The wartime chapter contains some of the book's best material and most restrained writing. Highly sentimental by nature, Valenti manages to stay away from greatest-generational myth and concentrate on the terror he felt during a conflict that was "brutal, callous and cruel, filled with depravities." After returning home in 1945, he never again flew a plane.Valenti does not tell us whether, upon arriving back in the States, he went so far as to kiss the ground, but he certainly hit it running. The G.I. Bill of Rights took him through an accelerated program at Harvard Business School, the description of which is an orgy of retrospective delight: The "incandescent" faculty is "like a championship athletic team, with every player having a good shot at being admitted to the Hall of Fame." His fellow students are "a glittering assembly" of corporate comers, soon to be "some of America's matchless business champions."Valenti himself returned to Humble Oil and raised its sales at the Texas gas pump from fifth place to first with an ad campaign emphasizing the company's clean restrooms. Before long, with a partner named Weldon Weekley, he was forming an independent agency and snagging Humble's rival Conoco as a client. He was also writing a column for The Houston Post and making the acquaintance of Senator Lyndon Johnson, who turned into a kind of enormous dowry when Valenti married one of Johnson's most devoted aides.Weekley & Valenti branched out into Texas political consulting, taking on large pieces of the 1960 Kennedy-Johnson campaign as well as John B. Connally's gubernatorial run two years later. The success of both efforts ensured that Valenti would be in the thick of the planning for a swing through Texas by the president and vice president in November 1963. Two hours after John F. Kennedy's murder, he was standing in the frame of Cecil Stoughton's famous photo of Johnson's swearing-in aboard Air Force One, finding the transfer of power a "grave and wondrous miracle that had unfolded before my eyes."From the first awful afternoon of Johnson's presidency, there was no question that Valenti would become part of the administration. Once inside the White House, he supervised Johnson's schedule and watched the new president move from coddling the old Kennedy hands to enacting his own Great Society. When it comes to Vietnam, Valenti's Johnson is a reluctant and finally agonized war maker, begging for contrarian viewpoints and telling the author that reading casualty reports is "like drinking carbolic acid every morning." Over all, the picture of Johnson is of a piece with the most-quoted, and ridiculed, utterance of Valenti's lifetime, made in 1965: "I sleep each night a little better ... because Lyndon Johnson is my president." He never quite kicked the deifying compulsion, and in this memoir says, a bit creepily, that hearing agreement from Lyndon Johnson was "like scoring 1600 on your SATs." But Valenti does tell a wonderful story about campaigning in an open car with the president, through Brooklyn, in October 1964. When riding through an Italian district, Johnson hoisted Valenti's arm while his aide was introduced as "the closest man to the president"; a few minutes later, when they headed into a Jewish neighborhood, Johnson's "voice was low but firm. 'O.K., Jack, you can get out now.' "After the Hollywood executives Lew Wasserman and Arthur Krim persuaded Valenti to leave the White House for the M.P.A.A. position (the organization's board had reportedly also considered Richard Nixon), the author experienced some awkward early moments among tantrum-prone moguls. In an attempt at small talk with Darryl Zanuck, Valenti complimented the producer's 1944 biopic about Woodrow Wilson. Zanuck replied: "You would pick the one film that we had to arrest people to go to the theater. Disaster at the box office." But Valenti found his way soon enough, making himself into a "semicelebrity" in order to be more effective battling foreign restrictions on American films or instituting the M.P.A.A.'s movie-rating system, which he insists is "still effective and trusted."The Hollywood portion of his book is strangely without sizzle. The anecdotes are duds ("Not recognizing her was a first-class blunder, but I hadn't expected Reese Witherspoon to be carrying a small child"), and the author's insights into stardom don't rise much above his overall assessment of the Academy Awards: it's an honor just to be nominated. For all the decades he spent in the movie business, his memoir never really makes him look at home there. Still, there's no doubting the cinematic style of recollection it induced. Valenti's chapter on the Kennedy assassination is called "The Longest Day," and it includes Johnson's Capraesque declarations of what he'll do now that he's president: "I'm going to get a bill through that's gonna make sure that everybody has a right to vote. You give people a vote, and they damn sure have power to change their life for the better." When George Wallace makes a tense visit to the Oval Office, it's "a scene worthy of Steven Spielberg," and Johnson's feud with Bobby Kennedy seems to have left Valenti hungering for a happy ending. He blames unnamed others, not the principals, for their failure to reconcile.The book contains plenty of errors — surely Mrs. Kennedy was not wearing her pink pillbox hat the night before Dallas, any more than Valenti could have landed at Charles de Gaulle Airport while de Gaulle was still alive — but the mistakes tend to get lost, along with much else of potential substance, in the relentless toastmastering of the author's style. Valenti claims that his florid prose derives from a too-enthusiastic desire to imitate the writings of Gibbon and Macaulay and Winston Churchill; the reader may find it more reminiscent of presenter scripts at the Golden Globes. "When Sinatra died, it was as if the sky drained of song," Valenti writes. The resultant downpour did not seem to quench the genius of Quincy Jones: "Music roared through him, set his soul on fire, and for the rest of his life those flames blazed as if fed dry tinder." Kirk Douglas "has been globally revered," and Warren Beatty can often be found not just reading but "ravaging libraries." All this may make a reader feel stuck in Fulsome Prison, but the showering of accolades seems always to have energized Valenti, who would no doubt still say, from some genial place beyond, that "a little hyperbole never hurt anybody."When she moved into her retirement condominium on a golf course, Eleanor Weiner admired the lush, pristine views of the fairways and greens, a landscape she never had to mow or maintain. Not long after, as she prepared dinner, a golf ball shattered the kitchen window, whistled past  her head and crashed through the glass on her oven door. Ms. Weiner retrieved the ball from her oven and stalked outside to confront the golfer who had launched the missile."He told me that's what I get for living on a golf course," said Ms. Weiner, who  has lived for a dozen years alongside Rancho Las Palmas Country Club near Palm Springs, Calif. "That was the first time I heard that, but it surely hasn't been the last."The intersection of errant golf shots and private property is not a new phenomenon. But with new gear that enables average golfers to hit a ball 250 yards, and with golf communities sprouting nationwide — 70 percent of new courses include housing — it is becoming an increasingly prominent problem. Most homes built near this country's 16,000 golf courses may not be in the cross hairs of slicing duffers, but thousands are."It's not only an ongoing problem, it's been made worse by technologically advanced golf equipment that makes golf balls go farther — and farther sideways," said David Mulvihill, a managing director at the Urban Land Institute, who has studied golf course development."So homes that have been on a golf course for decades without incident are suddenly in the path of guys whacking giant-headed drivers. The golf course designers are trying to adjust with wider fairway corridors, but because of liability issues, no one is willing to put on paper what the acceptable setbacks are."Before buying a five-bedroom house in Maricopa, Ariz., Jenny Robertson  scrutinized it, with her mother's help, according to feng shui principles to assess its harmony with its surroundings. Mrs. Robertson, who is not a golfer, barely looked at the tee box 150 yards from her backyard."We did not consider the feng shui of bad golfers," she said. "When I go outside, it's like dodgeball out there. I wish I knew that you have to be careful where you live on a golf course."Some people have become virtual prisoners in their homes. Earla Smith lives at Lookout Mountain Golf Club in Phoenix. Look out, indeed."The second day I was in the house, I kept hearing a banging outside," Ms. Smith, 85, said. "It was golf balls hitting the outside walls. Three or four windows were broken. I sat out on the patio and I was lucky I wasn't killed. I had a 70-inch picture window broken on the front of the house, and that doesn't even face the golf course."In Rehoboth, Mass., Joyce Amaral collected 1,800 golf balls from her property abutting Middlebrook Country Club, then lugged them into court when she sued the club. Ms. Amaral's house was hit so regularly, her landscapers wore hard hats. Balls set off the burglar alarm and dented her car.Although the club existed decades before the house was built, a court ruled that the  balls — and the golfers looking for them — were a trespass. The parties settled this month, with the club agreeing to shorten the No. 9 hole, which should keep the Amaral property out of the line of fire.But Pete Cuppels, the club's owner, said the settlement would probably put his low-cost nine-hole course out of business."I've already had to take $50,000 from my retirement account to pay for legal fees, both the plaintiff's and mine," Mr. Cuppels, 68, said. "We modified the hole before the settlement, and we've already seen a big drop in return business. I feel worse that my name is on a ruling that could be like the Roe v. Wade of golf law. If the precedent is that golf course owners are responsible for every crooked shot hit by a novice or a good golfer, we're all in trouble."Most courts, however, instead rule that homeowners assume risk when they move adjacent to a golf course, said Dalton B. Floyd Jr., a South Carolina lawyer whose practice regularly involves golf-related litigation and who has been a consultant to the Professional Golfers Association of America."The golf course owners have a duty to exercise ordinary concern," Mr. Floyd said. "And in some instances, there may be a design problem that can be corrected by moving tees, greens, trees or using nets. There are always exceptions, and sometimes it can get very serious. But it is also part of golf that the golfer doesn't always know where that ball will end up."Some follow golfing etiquette: You break a window, you pay for it. But several homeowners said golfers rarely offer restitution."Nobody leaves their business card in the broken glass," said Joe Jonas, who lives near a course in St. George, Utah. "The one time I did catch the guy, he gave me an address and phone number that turned out to be phony. He was playing in a church outing."Course designers and golf professionals agree that the worst place to build a house is the right side of a hole about 150 to 200 yards from the tee. Directly behind or to the side of a green is risky, too, even if the home is high above it.The deck behind Dave Feigin's town house on the popular Crystal Springs Golf Course in Hardyston, N.J., is 50 feet above a green. Yet a steady stream of sliced shots make their way onto his deck and yard. Mr. Feigin keeps two five-gallon buckets overflowing with balls he has found."I give most of them away, but I keep and play those beautiful $4 golf balls," he said.Other homeowners have found ways to peacefully accommodate their proximity to courses. Ms. Weiner and Ms. Smith turned to Screenmobile, a company that specializes in heavy-duty screens for doors and windows. Screenmobile said it received more than 400 calls from homeowners last year.Ms. Smith said the screens helped considerably. But asked what advice she would give a friend considering such a location, she said, "Don't do it."When she moved into her retirement condominium on a golf course, Eleanor Weiner admired the lush, pristine views of the fairways and greens, a landscape she never had to mow or maintain. Not long after, as she prepared dinner, a golf ball shattered the kitchen window, whistled past  her head and crashed through the glass on her oven door. Ms. Weiner retrieved the ball from her oven and stalked outside to confront the golfer who had launched the missile."He told me that's what I get for living on a golf course," said Ms. Weiner, who  has lived for a dozen years alongside Rancho Las Palmas Country Club near Palm Springs, Calif. "That was the first time I heard that, but it surely hasn't been the last."The intersection of errant golf shots and private property is not a new phenomenon. But with new gear that enables average golfers to hit a ball 250 yards, and with golf communities sprouting nationwide — 70 percent of new courses include housing — it is becoming an increasingly prominent problem. Most homes built near this country's 16,000 golf courses may not be in the cross hairs of slicing duffers, but thousands are."It's not only an ongoing problem, it's been made worse by technologically advanced golf equipment that makes golf balls go farther — and farther sideways," said David Mulvihill, a managing director at the Urban Land Institute, who has studied golf course development."So homes that have been on a golf course for decades without incident are suddenly in the path of guys whacking giant-headed drivers. The golf course designers are trying to adjust with wider fairway corridors, but because of liability issues, no one is willing to put on paper what the acceptable setbacks are."Before buying a five-bedroom house in Maricopa, Ariz., Jenny Robertson  scrutinized it, with her mother's help, according to feng shui principles to assess its harmony with its surroundings. Mrs. Robertson, who is not a golfer, barely looked at the tee box 150 yards from her backyard."We did not consider the feng shui of bad golfers," she said. "When I go outside, it's like dodgeball out there. I wish I knew that you have to be careful where you live on a golf course."Some people have become virtual prisoners in their homes. Earla Smith lives at Lookout Mountain Golf Club in Phoenix. Look out, indeed."The second day I was in the house, I kept hearing a banging outside," Ms. Smith, 85, said. "It was golf balls hitting the outside walls. Three or four windows were broken. I sat out on the patio and I was lucky I wasn't killed. I had a 70-inch picture window broken on the front of the house, and that doesn't even face the golf course."In Rehoboth, Mass., Joyce Amaral collected 1,800 golf balls from her property abutting Middlebrook Country Club, then lugged them into court when she sued the club. Ms. Amaral's house was hit so regularly, her landscapers wore hard hats. Balls set off the burglar alarm and dented her car.Although the club existed decades before the house was built, a court ruled that the  balls — and the golfers looking for them — were a trespass. The parties settled this month, with the club agreeing to shorten the No. 9 hole, which should keep the Amaral property out of the line of fire.But Pete Cuppels, the club's owner, said the settlement would probably put his low-cost nine-hole course out of business."I've already had to take $50,000 from my retirement account to pay for legal fees, both the plaintiff's and mine," Mr. Cuppels, 68, said. "We modified the hole before the settlement, and we've already seen a big drop in return business. I feel worse that my name is on a ruling that could be like the Roe v. Wade of golf law. If the precedent is that golf course owners are responsible for every crooked shot hit by a novice or a good golfer, we're all in trouble."Most courts, however, instead rule that homeowners assume risk when they move adjacent to a golf course, said Dalton B. Floyd Jr., a South Carolina lawyer whose practice regularly involves golf-related litigation and who has been a consultant to the Professional Golfers Association of America."The golf course owners have a duty to exercise ordinary concern," Mr. Floyd said. "And in some instances, there may be a design problem that can be corrected by moving tees, greens, trees or using nets. There are always exceptions, and sometimes it can get very serious. But it is also part of golf that the golfer doesn't always know where that ball will end up."Some follow golfing etiquette: You break a window, you pay for it. But several homeowners said golfers rarely offer restitution."Nobody leaves their business card in the broken glass," said Joe Jonas, who lives near a course in St. George, Utah. "The one time I did catch the guy, he gave me an address and phone number that turned out to be phony. He was playing in a church outing."Course designers and golf professionals agree that the worst place to build a house is the right side of a hole about 150 to 200 yards from the tee. Directly behind or to the side of a green is risky, too, even if the home is high above it.The deck behind Dave Feigin's town house on the popular Crystal Springs Golf Course in Hardyston, N.J., is 50 feet above a green. Yet a steady stream of sliced shots make their way onto his deck and yard. Mr. Feigin keeps two five-gallon buckets overflowing with balls he has found."I give most of them away, but I keep and play those beautiful $4 golf balls," he said.Other homeowners have found ways to peacefully accommodate their proximity to courses. Ms. Weiner and Ms. Smith turned to Screenmobile, a company that specializes in heavy-duty screens for doors and windows. Screenmobile said it received more than 400 calls from homeowners last year.Ms. Smith said the screens helped considerably. But asked what advice she would give a friend considering such a location, she said, "Don't do it."
