COMPANIES must make major  trade-offs if they want to provide consistent, profitable service, argues Frances X. Frei, an associate professor at Harvard Business School.In "The Four Things a Service Business Must Get Right," she says those decisions go beyond merely acknowledging that a company cannot be all things to all people, but involve fundamental judgments about how the business is structured.Take, for example, the type of workers hired.  "It's a simple reality that employees who are above average in both attitude and aptitude are expensive to employ," she writes in The Harvard Business Review. "A business that wants to maintain a competitive cost structure will probably need to compromise on one quality or the other."As for the four critical factors, Ms. Frei says a company must first determine what it is  selling. Instead of thinking, as manufacturers do, about what characteristics buyers will pay for, the focus should be on the "experiences customers want to have." For example, they may "attribute convenience or friendly interaction" to  a service brand.Second is figuring out what price to charge. It costs to provide excellent service, and while a company  may  persuade customers to pay for it, the expense can  also be covered through operational savings.Third is managing workers. The questions to ask are what conditions will allow employees to excel,  and what will motivate them to give their best.Last, companies need to think through how customers will interact with them so transactions move quickly and smoothly.  "A customer who dithers at a fast-food counter makes the service less fast for everyone behind him."LESS IS MORE "Before proposing to offer a new service, don't think twice — think three times," writes Deena Katz, an associate professor at Texas Tech, in Financial Planning.There is nothing worse than to promise something to a customer — or a potential customer — and not follow through. To find out if the new idea can be supported, Ms. Katz suggests asking questions like these:¶"How complicated is it to deliver?"¶"Can someone else do it better; should the service be  outsourced?¶"Will it add value to the client relationship?"Obviously, if  customers do not think it is significant, it is not worth doing. So before making changes,  ask them if they believe the idea is a good one.TONS OF CONFUSION Stephen Jones, a Car and Driver reader, asked a question that has probably baffled many who watch the seemingly endless truck commercials on television. "If a half-ton pickup neither weighs, carries, nor tows a half ton, what exactly makes it a half-ton pickup, or three-quarter ton, or one ton?" he wondered.The answer, in the magazine's Franz Kafka's Garage column, is: "Long ago, half-ton pickups could haul half a ton." But competition led to more capable trucks, though the name  did not change."Take the half-ton Ford F-150: in 4X4 SuperCrew trim with a 4.6-liter engine, it can hold 1,480 pounds of cargo in its bed, but an F-150 4X2 regular cab with the 5.4-liter and the payload package can hold 3,080 pounds," the magazine says. Though the numbers don't make sense anymore, it says, the designations "provide a relative guideline for a truck's level of heavy-dutiness."FINAL TAKE It does pay to be better looking, if you are a man, according to Harper's Magazine. An attractive man makes 4 percent more than his ordinary-looking counterpart who does the same job, it says, citing research by Daniel Hamermesh, an economics professor  at the University of Texas.An ugly man makes 13 percent less. PAUL B. BROWNIt's a tautology, of course. If you insist on doing everything yourself, your business will never grow beyond what you can personally handle.People who run small businesses know this, but as Beth Schneider, president of Process Prodigy, which "helps business owners leverage the best business practices," points out on Entrepreneur.com  there's "something in us that fights against asking for help." She added: "It's almost like there's some rite  of passage in being able to do it all ourselves. But the reality is, you can't do it all and focus on your strengths without stretching yourself in too many directions."And that means small-business owners  need to delegate, if they  wish to grow, a concept, she concedes, that can be difficult to accept."Delegation is about handing over authority, and for many small business owners, that's a scary concept because you don't know what will happen when you give up control," she writes.WHY NOT? Michele Hanson-O'Reggio, writing  on solo-e.com, a Web site for business owners with no employees, agrees that fear is a major  reason that entrepreneurs do not delegate.By delegating, business owners  are taking a risk because they  do not know if the person to whom they  are delegating will be up to the task. But, she says, entrepreneurs need to get  past their fears, because "risks are necessary for business growth."What else keeps entrepreneurs from delegating? She lists these four other factors:1. Worried the work will not  be as good. They worry that the person they delegate to may  get the job done but not as well as if they had done it themselves.2. Clueless. "You may simply not be aware of the tasks that can be delegated because you have not invested time to examine your activities and learn about help that you can access."3. Egomaniacal.4. "Confusing action with productivity. You may feel that if you delegate, there will be nothing left for you to do. Nothing could be farther from the truth!"HOW TO DELEGATE If you want to delegate, Jeffrey Moses, writing  on the Web site of the National Federal of Independent Business, a small business advocacy organization, suggests starting by acknowledging you "are not the only person who can do things exactly right."Then, since you are unlikely to turn into a hands-off manager overnight,  "establish written descriptions of the tasks you are delegating, and be sure that your employees understand every detail," he says. "Descriptions of tasks should include: methods, goals, means of accomplishment (finances, employees, equipment, etc.), quality of work done, means to define that quality and timelines for completion of each stage of work."And, for  peace of mind, do not begin by delegating large or vital projects."Take things one step at a time by starting with smaller, less important tasks," he writes. "As your experience with delegating progresses, you'll feel more comfortable assigning larger projects, and you'll be better at the delegation process."IF YOU DON'T The inability to delegate can literally lead to a life of regret, as an Inc. interview with Alfred Peet,  founder of  Peet's Coffee & Tea, makes clear."I always had good personnel. I paid more than the going rate," he told Jill Hecht Maxwell. "But I worked too hard, because I couldn't delegate. I wanted to oversee everything. I said, 'I know exactly where I want to go, but I can't explain every thought, every idea I have for the future of this company.' Many people left. I was burnt out, so I had to sell. Do you know what it's like when you've given so much, and there's nothing left?"LAST CALL Here's something to ponder when  you are trapped with a screaming infant on a plane that is taking you to a meeting with a  big prospect:According to a poll conducted by Maritz Research,  nearly three of four airline travelers (73 percent)  believe that there should be "family sections" on planes.ROCHESTER (AP) — Corning, the specialty glass maker, said Tuesday that its first-quarter profit tripled to more than $1 billion on demand for glass used in flat-screen televisions and laptop computers.Its earnings climbed to $1.029 billion, or 64 cents a share, from $327 million, or 20 cents a share, a year earlier.Sales surged 24 percent, to $1.617 billion from $1.307 billion, lifted by a 58 percent increase in the display technologies unit, its biggest business. Despite a slowdown in economic growth, the company said it benefited especially from robust consumer sales of liquid-crystal-display TVs."We see no evidence of the U.S. economy impacting L.C.D. TV sales," the chief financial officer, James B. Flaws, said in a conference call with analysts.Excluding a one-time gain related to asbestos litigation, the profit was better than the 42 cents a share expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial. Corning's stock rose 85 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $26.53 a share.Corning, the world's largest maker of L.C.D. glass, said its display technologies sales jumped to $829 million from $524 million.Sales in its telecommunications unit fell 4 percent, to $421 million, from $439 million as strong optical fiber volume was offset by a slow start to several customer projects. Environmental technologies sales rose 10 percent, to $197 million, from $179 million, fueled by the pollution-filter business.The company is based in Corning, N.Y.AR, New York, hired two senior executives. David Israel joined as executive creative director; he had been executive creative director at Desgrippes Gobé, New York. And Paul Eustace joined as senior creative director; he had most recently been creative director at Select NY.Frank Bifulco joined Home Depot, Atlanta, as senior vice president and chief marketing officer. John Ross, vice president for advertising, had been handling the duties of chief marketing officer on an interim basis after Roger Adams left the post last October. Mr. Bifulco had been president and chief customer officer at the North American sales unit of Hasbro, Pawtucket, R.I.Alex Brough joined MOG, Berkeley, Calif., a network of music blogs, as vice president for sales and strategic partnerships, a new post. He had been director for West Coast digital sales at the Los Angeles office of MTV Networks, part of Viacom.The John Buck Company, Chicago, a real estate company, hired Slack Barshinger, Chicago, as lead agency for marketing communications and public relations. The company had previously used various agencies, some of which may continued to work on projects. Spending has not been determined.Tom Dempsey, managing partner and director for national broadcast at Mediaedge:cia,  New York, part of the GroupM division of the WPP Group, was named to a new post, director for digital investment for the North American operations of GroupM.James Desser, chief operating officer at Verified Audit Circulation, San Francisco, is retiring, the company said, after more than 27 years in various jobs there. The post is not expected to be filled.Curt Detweiler joined Ground Zero, Marina del Rey, Calif., as partner and executive creative director, a new post. He had been a creative director at the New York and Playa del Rey, Calif., offices of TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.Alison Fahey, editor at Adweek, New York, was promoted to publisher and editorial director; the combined post is a new one for Adweek, part of the Nielsen Business Media unit of the Nielsen Company. Mike Chapman will succeed Ms. Fahey as editor; he had most recently been editorial director at eMarketer and before that worked for the Economist Intelligence Unit division of The Economist Group for 18 years. Mr. Chapman will report to Ms. Fahey and Ms. Fahey will report, as she has, to Sabrina Crow, senior vice president at the marketing, media and visual arts group at Nielsen Business Media.Omar Garcia and Carlos Montaño Mejía joined ViVa  Partnership as equity partners and members of senior management. Mr. Garcia will become chief strategy officer, based in the San Antonio office, and Mr. Montaño will be chief creative director, based in the Miami headquarters.Grand Central Marketing, New York, promoted two employees and hired a third. Keith Fernbach, public relations director, becomes vice president for public relations. Andrew Yard, account director, becomes senior account director. Meredith Gaffney joined the agency as an account manager in the Los Angeles office; she had been at RedPeg Marketing, Alexandria, Va.James Hitchcock joined Discovery Communications, Silver Spring, Md., as marketing and branding officer for the Discovery Channel. He had been senior vice president for marketing and creative at CMT, Nashville, Tenn., part of the MTV Networks unit of Viacom.Claire Huang joined the Boston office of Bank of America as the head of marketing for its global wealth and investment management division. She succeeds Jim Drury, who will work on a strategic assessment of the unit's marketing efforts, the bank said. Ms. Huang had most recently been executive vice president for marketing and segment management at Fidelity Investments, Boston.Jordan Korfine, an account director at Agent16,  New York, was promoted to a new post, director for content development.Natalie Jamison joined Barker/DZP, New York, as account director. She had been an account supervisor at BBDO Worldwide, New York, part of the Omnicom Group.Bianca Janosevic joined The Week magazine, New York, part of Dennis Publishing, in a new post, as executive director for its companion Web site, theweekdaily.com. Ms. Janosevic had been general manager at the Web site of The Daily News, New York (nydailynews.com), which is owned by Mortimer B. Zuckerman.Dean Lucente joined IAC Advertising Solutions, New York, as vice president for sales. He succeeds Nicole McCormack, who left to join Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, New York, as digital advertising sales director. Mr. Lucente had been director for sales at Yahoo HotJobs, part of Yahoo. IAC Advertising Solutions is part of the IAC Search and Media division of IAC/InterActiveCorp.Sean Miller joined R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as associate planning director, leading the Nokia account. He had been director for insight and strategy at the Integer Group, Denver, part of the Omnicom Group.Wendy Mure joined Food & Wine magazine, New York, as vice president for marketing. She assumes some duties that had been handled by John Rice, marketing director, who left to join The New Yorker, part of the Condé Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications. Ms. Mure had been brand development director at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, New York. Food & Wine is part of the American Express Publishing Corporation, which is owned by the American Express Company and managed by the Time Inc. division of Time Warner.Lee Newman joined the Amsterdam office of Wieden & Kennedy as managing director, completing the senior management team. He had been senior vice president and group account director on the BMW account at GSD&M Idea City, Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group.The New York State Fair and Empire Expo Center chose the Pinckney Hugo Group, Syracuse, as its marketing agency of record. Pinckney Hugo will replace Latorra, Paul & McCann Advertising, Syracuse, which had handled the assignment since 1993. The decision came after a required review. Pinckney Hugo was awarded a three-year contract with two one-year renewal options. The value of the contract ranges from $500,000 to $1.5 million each year, depending on the budget for the fair and expo center.Keith Norman joined the Laredo Group, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., as vice president for business development. He had most recently been Internet director at the Waterman Broadcasting Corporation, Fort Myers, Fla.Christine Petrillo joined Alloy Media and Marketing, New York, as vice president and business development director, a new post. She had been vice president and director for integrated sales at the HFM Total Solutions unit of Hachette Filipacchi Media U.S., New York, part of the Hachette Filipacchi Médias division of Lagardère.Sega of America, San Francisco, part of the Sega Corporation of Japan, chose Mediasmith, San Francisco, to handle digital and print media planning and buying for coming video game introductions. Spending for the assignment, which had been handled by Ignited Minds, El Segundo, Calif., was not disclosed.Mike Strauss joined Marcus Thomas, Cleveland, as vice president for interactive, a new post. He had been group account director at Whittmanhart  Interactive, Chicago.Orlena Yeung joined Last.fm, part of the CBS Corporation, in a new post, vice president for marketing. She will be based in London for six months and then in New York. Ms. Yeung had most recently been business director at Fahrenheit 212, New York.Leslie Jean Evans and Landon Ketchum Thorne III were married on Saturday in Norwalk, Conn. The Rev. John S. Livingston, a minister of the United Church of Christ, performed the ceremony at the United Church of Rowayton.Mrs. Thorne, 48, works in New York, coaching executives at financial service and media companies about interpersonal and organizational issues. She graduated from Middlebury.She is a daughter of Linda E. Evans and George S. Evans of Rowayton, Conn. Her father retired as the manager of international relations at General Electric in Washington. Her mother retired as a real estate agent at Kelly Associates in Darien, Conn.Mr. Thorne, 65, is an owner of the Millennium Real Estate Group, an investment firm, in Beaufort, S.C. He is a trustee of the Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs in New York. In 1996, he was the on-camera business adviser for participants in the Miami edition of "The Real World," on MTV. In 2002, he retired as a colonel in the Marine Reserves,  stationed at MacDill Air Force Base near Tampa, Fla. He graduated from Yale.He is a son of the late Alice B. Thorne who lived in Westport, Conn., and the late Mr. Thorne Jr., who lived in New York. His father was a vice president at Bankers Trust in New York. The bridegroom is a descendant of William Thorne, who signed the Flushing Remonstrance, a 1657 document demanding religious tolerance.The bridegroom's first marriage ended in divorce, and he was a widower.ForeignAn article on Sunday about fighting in Iraq misstated the title of a Kurd who was the source of information about the Turkish Army's attacks on Saturday on Kurdish rebels hiding in northern Iraq. The Kurd, Jabbar al-Yawer, is the Kurdistan Regional Government's deputy minister for pesh merga affairs (the pesh merga is the regional government's defense force). He is not a spokesman for the Kurdistan Workers' Party, the main rebel group that has been fighting the Turkish military in the Iraq-Turkey border region.  (Go to Article)NationalAn article on Tuesday about Chinese students in the United States who have to deal with negative images of their home country misspelled the family name of a doctoral student at the University of Southern California who said the Western news media were biased against China. He is Chau Wu, not Chou Wu.  (Go to Article)MetroAn article on Friday about New York City Council members who used campaign funds to pay themselves and their relatives misidentified the type of property for which Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr. paid his wife $6,600 in rent for space in 2005. The property was a commercial building that Mrs. Recchia owns with her husband, not the family home.  (Go to Article)Business DayAn article on Saturday about the rising environmental costs of shipping food globally misspelled the surname of the head of Bellona, a Norwegian environmental group, who commented on pollution from transport. He is Frederic Hauge, not Hague.  (Go to Article)An article on Monday about World Wrestling Entertainment's comeback efforts misidentified the employer of Chris McCumber, who likened the wrestling show "W.W.E. Raw" to "Monday Night Football." He is the senior vice president for marketing and brand strategy of the cable network that broadcasts the show; he does not work for World Wrestling Entertainment. The article also misspelled the name of Mr. McCumber's network. It is USA Network, not Networks. And the article misstated the beneficiaries of a recent increase in W.W.E.'s quarterly dividend. The dividend will be received by Class A shareholders; it will not benefit the McMahon family, which controls the company but owns Class B stock.  (Go to Article)An article on Tuesday about the resilience of video game sales in a slow economy miscalculated the price of an hour's entertainment from Grand Theft Auto IV. The game costs $60 and can take 40 hours or more to complete, making its cost per hour $1.50 or less, not less than 70 cents.  (Go to Article)The Advertising column on April 22, about unusual advertising like scratch-off scents, taste strips and pocket squares, misidentified the creator of a pop-up vertical fin for Discovery Channel's Shark Week. It was the work of Americhip, a design and production firm in Torrance, Calif. — not Structural Graphics, a firm in Essex, Conn.  (Go to Article)An article on the Square Feet pages of Business Day on March 26 about the installation of microturbines to produce power in Manhattan buildings referred incorrectly to the output of two units installed at Astor Wine and Spirits on Lafayette Street. The two units can put out about 120 kilowatts of power; the measure used in the article, "120 kilowatts of electricity an hour," is meaningless. A reader's e-mail message pointing out the error was misdirected at The Times.  (Go to Article)ObituariesAn obituary by The Associated Press on March 1 about Ben Chapman, who played the title role in the 1954 horror film "Creature From the Black Lagoon," erroneously included some medals among the decorations he received as a marine in the Korean War. According to the National Personnel Records Center in St. Louis, he was authorized to wear the Korean Service Medal with one star and the United Nations Service Medal. The center said it had no record of his receiving the Silver Star, Bronze Star and two Purple Hearts. This correction was delayed for research.  (Go to Article)SportsA picture caption with the On Par article on Monday about the challenges of playing links-style courses misidentified one such course at Kiawah Island, S.C., in some editions. It is the Ocean Course, not the River Course.  (Go to Article)Science TimesAn answer in the Q&A column on April 22 about whether a gyroscope gains weight when spinning misstated the theoretical effect of motion on the weight of an object. According to Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity, any change in the energy of an object produces a change in its mass. Therefore, adding energy to a gyroscope in any way, including spinning its rotor or heating it, would in theory cause a minuscule gain in weight that could not be measured by conventional means.  (Go to Article)The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper's journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com.MOSCOW — The aluminum tycoon Oleg V. Deripaska said Thursday that he had bought 25 percent of the Arctic mining company Norilsk Nickel, a deal that furthers Mr. Deripaska's quest to consolidate the Russian metals and mining industry.The transaction continues a pattern in Russia of uniting companies separated in the breakup of the Soviet Union and the privatization trend in the 1990s into big new monopolies, either state-owned or controlled by executives loyal to the Kremlin.Analysts say the mergers have been driven in part by national pride and in part by the efficiencies that large companies can create, particularly in mining where mergers have become a global trend. A combination of the biggest Russian aluminum maker, Rusal, controlled by Mr. Deripaska, and Norilsk would consolidate much of Russia's nonferrous metals industry.The purchase settled a  dispute between two men, Mikhail D. Prokhorov and Vladimir O. Potanin, who were formerly the largest stakeholders in Norilsk.Yet it also appeared to set up a new conflict, this one  between Mr. Deripaska and Mr. Potanin, for control of Norilsk, the world's largest nickel producer —  which was first built by gulag prisoners and now has stock traded in London and a market capitalization of more than $55 billion.The buyout was a combined stock-and-cash offer. Rusal paid Mr. Prokhorov an unspecified amount of cash and 14 percent of its shares. The closely held Rusal is unlisted.Mining analysts in Moscow said the 25 percent stake was a first step in Mr. Deripaska's attempt to acquire control of Norilsk. "We assume that Rusal is likely to acquire the 30 percent stake from Potanin," Dmitri V. Smolin, a metals and mining analyst at the UralSib bank, said in a telephone interview. "Rusal will be the mining champion in Russia with a market capital of more $100 billion."A combined company, he said, would have projected annual earnings before taxes, interest and amortization of $17 billion. It would become the world's largest producer of nickel, aluminum and palladium, and be a top 10 producer of copper and platinum.The exact value of the buyout was not disclosed. Based on Norilsk Nickel's market capitalization, Mr. Prokhorov's 25 percent stake was worth more than $13 billion.In one sign of the scale of the buyout, a syndicate of Western investment banks, including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, provided a loan supporting the  bid, Rusal said in a statement, without revealing its size. The Interfax news agency   said that Rusal had borrowed $4.5 billion.In  a sign that Mr. Deripaska intends to play an active role in Norilsk's management and oversight, Rusal announced Thursday that it had nominated four new board members, including Mr. Deripaska.A former nuclear physicist turned post-Soviet corporate raider, Mr. Deripaska has strong ties to the Kremlin and is a grandson of the late President Boris N. Yeltsin by marriage.Mr. Potanin also has ties to power, and has resisted Mr. Deripaska's efforts to buy the company, in a clash of  business titans reminiscent of the struggles for control of privatized assets in the mid-1990s.Metalloinvest, a coal and iron ore mining company owned by Alisher B. Usmanov, an executive allied with Gazprom, the Russian natural gas monopoly, released a statement Thursday saying it would continue negotiations with Mr. Potanin in a rival merger offer.Also on Thursday, Mr. Potanin met with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, though few details were released.Indeed, the struggle may become a first test on economic policy for Mr. Putin's successor, Dmitri A. Medvedev, who will be inaugurated on May 7. Mr. Medvedev, now a first deputy prime minister, has broadly endorsed Mr. Putin's business policies.This industrial strategy has resulted in the formation of vast monopolies on a nearly Soviet scale. Some 40 state-controlled holding companies have arisen in autos, aircraft manufacturing, oil and natural gas. Mr. Medvedev, in a rare and apparent breach with his boss, has said that Russia would be best served by eventually breaking up such monopolies.In Moscow trading on Thursday, Norilsk shares closed down less than 0.5 percent at 6,763 rubles, or $286.
