IT takes all types to run a successful business.To make sure boards are truly diverse, companies need to take a director's personality into account  when they look to add a member or upgrade their performance, two psychologists say  in Directors and Boards.Typically, boards "consider an individual's title, industry background and functional expertise," the psychologists, Peter G. Spanberger and Susan M. Jackson, wrote. "They also look to achieve a diversity of gender and ethnicity."But that, they contend, is not enough to achieve "diversity at its broadest level." A well-functioning board needs a diversity of personalities, they say."Highly opinionated, forceful individuals are just as important to the group process as those who are consensus-driven," they write. "Creative risk-takers need to be balanced with cautious, detailed thinkers."The problem, of course, is if the board makes sure that each personality type is countered by its opposite, nothing may get done, or board members will spend all their time fighting with one another.The authors concede that, but respond  that  having these differing personality types is beneficial, if managed properly."A creative board member can offer new insights and considerations that may expand the board's thinking," they say. "Another board member can remain cautious and careful and prevent the board from straying too far from important basics."TYPES A TO D Writing in Entrepreneur, Robert Kiyosaki argues there are only four personality types found in any organization:¶Those who want to be liked. "These are the social directors who want everyone to be happy, especially with them."¶Those who want to be comfortable. They want job security. They will do a good job, "but don't expect them to stretch or push themselves" or to respond well to pressure.¶Those who want to be right. "These people are strong in their opinions and will defend their ideas to the death." They can be reluctant to accept other points of view.¶Those who want to win. They have the "drive and tenacity" to succeed.Mr. Kiyosaki says no one type is better than another. "Understanding them — as well as yourself, your strengths and what inspires you — is the foundation for long-term growth and success."GRADUAL CHANGE How can leaders avoid putting their companies through a major  reorganization? The answer, according to two management professors at Texas A&M,  is to make sure the company never needs one.The two, John Humphreys and Hal Langford, write in Sloan Management Review  that "out of inertia, some managers maintain the status quo" until noticeable problems "escalate into predicaments" that require  radical change.Problems can be spotted relatively early, they say, by paying attention to signs like rising turnover, "rampant tardiness" and a drop in quality. Asking three basic  questions may  help put the company back on track.First, how will the  company look different in the future? What will the  organization have to do to respond to competitive, consumer or demographic changes?Second, what will be the consequences of making those changes?Third, what can the company  do about the challenges the answers to Questions 1 and 2 are going to create?"As long as you know what you are up against, you can always manage it," they write.FINAL TAKE Here is some information that may be of interest  to marketers of frozen confections and linens, courtesy of AARP magazine: some 19 percent of Americans surveyed reported that they eat ice cream in bed. PAUL B. BROWN As home prices continue their free fall and banks shy away from lending, Washington officials have increasingly relied on two giant mortgage companies — Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac — to keep the housing market afloat.But with mortgage defaults and foreclosures rising, Bush administration officials, regulators and lawmakers are nervously asking whether these two companies, would-be saviors of the housing market, will soon need saving themselves.The companies, which say fears that they might falter are baseless, have recently received broad new powers and billions of dollars of investing authority from the federal government. And as Wall Street all but abandons the mortgage business, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac now overwhelmingly dominate it, handling more than 80 percent of all mortgages bought by investors in the first quarter of this year. That is more than double their market share in 2006.But some financial experts worry that the companies are dangerously close to the edge, especially if home prices go through another steep decline. Their combined cushion of $83 billion — the capital that their regulator requires them to hold — underpins a colossal $5 trillion in debt and other financial commitments.The companies, which were created by Congress but are owned by investors, suffered more than $9 billion in mortgage-related losses last year, and analysts expect those losses to grow this year. Fannie Mae is to release its latest financial results on Tuesday and Freddie Mac is to report earnings next week.The companies are sitting on as much as $19 billion in additional losses that they have not yet fully acknowledged, analysts say. If either company stumbled, the mortgage business could lose its only lubricant, potentially causing the housing market to plummet and the credit markets to freeze up completely.And if Fannie or Freddie fail, taxpayers would probably have to bail them out at a staggering cost."We've taken tremendous risks by loosening these companies' purse strings," said Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida and a former secretary of housing and urban development. "They could cause an economywide meltdown if they got into real trouble and leave the public on the hook for billions."Concerns over the companies' finances have prompted a fierce behind-the-scenes battle between nervous government officials and the two companies. Bush administration officials, the Federal Reserve and lawmakers all believe that the companies' financial safety cushion is far too thin and have pleaded with them to raise more capital from investors.Freddie and Fannie, which are enjoying new growth and profits, have largely resisted those pleas, people briefed on the talks say, because selling new shares could dilute the holdings of existing shareholders and drive down their stock prices. Though executives have promised to raise money this year, they refuse to specify how much and when.Moreover, the companies are using their newfound clout to push Congress and their regulator to roll back the limits that were imposed after recent scandals over accounting and executive pay, according to participants in those conversations.More Capital SoughtAs a result, high-ranking government officials are now quietly threatening to publicly criticize the two companies if they do not soon raise large amounts of capital, people with firsthand knowledge of those threats say. William Poole, a president of a Federal Reserve bank who has since retired, has warned that companies like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are "at the top of my list of sources of potentially serious trouble."A report last month by the agency overseeing the companies said that they pose "significant supervisory concerns" and that Freddie Mac suffers "internal control weaknesses."Lawmakers are pushing to rein in the companies with new legislation. Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who leads the Banking Committee, will soon take up legislation giving the government broad authority over the companies. Lawmakers say it is likely a bill will pass this year."They are on real thin ice financially," said Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Banking Committee. "And the way the law is written right now, there is very little we can do to correct that."The companies say such criticisms are without merit. Their latest regulatory filings, they note, show a combined financial safety net that exceeds required minimums by $7  billion. The companies raised $13 billion from investors last year and say any future losses will be offset by new revenue and by money they have already set aside.Criticisms Rejected"The irony is that right now I'm seeing the best opportunities since I've been in this business," said Daniel H. Mudd, chief executive of Fannie Mae, in an interview conducted last month.The companies also say that they have not demanded anything. Rather, they say, the limitations have been dropped because of the companies' commitment to financial transparency and aiding the housing recovery.But others remain concerned. Though the companies' main regulator, James B. Lockhart III, director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, has voiced strong confidence in the companies, a high-ranking member of his staff said some officials had begun considering the worst."It's not irrational to be thinking about a bailout," said that person, who requested anonymity, fearing dismissal.Fannie and Freddie do not lend directly to home buyers. Rather, they buy mortgages from banks and other lenders, and thereby provide fresh capital for home loans. The companies keep some of the mortgages they buy, hoping to profit from them, and sell the rest to investors with a guarantee to pay off the loan if the borrower defaults.Because of the widespread perception that the government would intervene if either company failed, they can borrow money at lower interest rates than their competitors. As a result, they have earned enormous profits that have enriched shareholders and managers alike: from 1990 to 2000, each company's stock grew more than 500 percent and  top executives were paid tens of millions of dollars.Those profits were threatened earlier this decade, however, when new competitors emerged and after audits revealed that both companies had manipulated their earnings. The companies were forced to replace top executives, pay hundreds of millions in penalties and consent to strict growth limits.To keep profits aloft and meet affordable-housing goals set by Congress, the companies began buying huge numbers of subprime and Alt-A mortgages, the highly profitable loans often taken out by low-income and riskier borrowers. By the end of last year, the companies had guaranteed or invested in $717 billion of subprime and Alt-A loans, up from almost none in 2000.Then the housing bubble burst. In February, the companies revealed a $6 billion combined loss in the fourth quarter of 2007, and both companies' stock prices fell more than 25 percent in less than two weeks. Freddie Mac fell to $17.39 on March 10 from $24.49 on Feb. 28, while Fannie Mae declined to $19.81 on March 10 from $27.90 on Feb. 28.Despite those troubles, lawmakers had few alternatives to asking Fannie and Freddie to buy more and riskier mortgages."I want these companies to help with affordable housing, to help low-income families get loans and to help clean up this subprime mess," said Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat and the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. "Otherwise, why should they exist?"Demands for RepealsBut now that the government depends on Fannie and Freddie to keep markets humming, the companies are making demands of their own — namely, repealing some of the limits created after the scandals and even some established by law.Last year, in return for buying billions of dollars of subprime mortgages to help stabilize the market, executives won the right to expand their investment portfolios. In March, the companies agreed to raise more capital within the year. In exchange, they received an additional $200 billion in purchasing power.Last month, the companies promised to pump money into the more expensive reaches of  the housing market. In return, Congress temporarily raised the cap on the size of the mortgages they can buy to almost $730,000 from $417,000."We have to bow and scrape and haggle each time we need help," said a senior Republican Senate assistant who spoke only on the condition of anonymity.Each time Congress or regulators have given the companies new room for growth, their stock prices have risen. But so far the companies have balked at raising more capital. That hesitation has lawmakers concerned that when the companies raise money this year, it will not be enough.In a March meeting, Freddie Mac's chairman, Richard F. Syron, bolstered those fears by saying the company would put shareholders' interests first. Michael L. Cosgrove, a spokesman for Freddie Mac, said Mr. Syron is committed to both satisfying the company's public mission and creating shareholder value. Fannie Mae, which is in a regulatory-imposed quiet period because it will soon release financial information, declined to comment on capital-raising issues.As worrisome as the need for new capital, some analysts say, are the companies' books.A report released earlier this month by Mr. Lockhart, the regulator, noted that although Freddie and Fannie had a combined $19.9 billion of "unrealized losses" on mortgage-related investments, neither company had reduced its earnings to reflect those declines. That is because they judged the losses to be temporary — in essence wagering that the mortgage market would recover before those assets were sold. Such a wager is permitted by the rules but difficult for outsiders to analyze.Fannie Mae declined to discuss unrealized losses. Mr. Cosgrove, the Freddie Mac spokesman, said the company discloses all financial choices and downgrades all potentially impaired securities when appropriate.The regulator's report also noted that Freddie used accounting choices that gave it an immediate $1 billion capital increase. While those and other tactics are technically permitted, the regulator said, they deserve scrutiny."Companies can make assumptions that cause very large differences in what they report," Mr. Lockhart said in an interview. He has repeatedly said that the companies are making good progress and have fixed many of their problems. But at least one accounting choice, he said, "concerns us."Mr. Cosgrove said Freddie Mac's accounting choices had been the best way to reflect financial realities.Both companies have also recently changed their policies on delinquent loans, which they previously recorded as impaired when borrowers were 120 days late. Now, some overdue loans can go two years before the companies record a loss.Fannie Mae declined to discuss the accounting of impaired loans. A representative of Freddie Mac said marking loans as permanently impaired at 120 days does not reflect that many of them avoid foreclosure. But the biggest risk, analysts say, is that both companies are betting that the housing market will rebound by 2010. If the housing malaise lasts longer, unexpected losses could overwhelm their reserves, starting  a chain of events that could result in a federal bailout.A version of those events began in November, when Freddie Mac's capital fell below congressionally mandated levels. The company stemmed the decline by selling $6 billion in preferred stock. But it might not manage that again if there is another unexpected loss, analysts say."The last two years have shown the real need for a stronger regulator," Mr. Lockhart said. If his agency did not curb the companies' growth earlier this decade, he added, "they would be part of the problem right now instead of part of the solution."A federal appeals court threw out New York City's longstanding lawsuit against the gun industry on Wednesday, ruling that a relatively new federal law protects gun makers against such suits.The appellate ruling killed perhaps the boldest avenue by which the city has sought to stem the flow of illegal guns into New York: a claim that gun makers and distributors have knowingly flooded illicit, underground markets with their weapons.The city's suit, filed in 2000, was upheld in December 2005 by Judge Jack B. Weinstein of Federal District Court in Brooklyn. Judge Weinstein allowed it to move forward, despite protests by gun makers like Beretta U.S.A., Browning Arms, Colt Manufacturing, Glock and Smith & Wesson, all of which cited a federal law that had been passed two months earlier.That law, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, banned all suits against the gun industry except  those in which a plaintiff could prove that gun makers had violated state or federal statutes in their sales and marketing practices.The city contended that the gun makers did exactly that, by failing to monitor retail dealers closely enough and, therefore, by allowing guns to end up in the hands of criminals. As a result, the city said, the manufacturers had created a "condition that negatively affects the public health or safety" and, thus, had violated New York State's public-nuisance law. It requested an injunction.But the Second Circuit Court of Appeals rejected that argument, ruling that the nuisance law did not constitute a permissible exception under the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act. It reversed Judge Weinstein's decision and ordered the suit dismissed.One judge on the three-judge panel, Robert A. Katzmann, dissented, arguing that the New York State Court of Appeals should have been asked to decide whether the state law was an exception under the federal law or not.Under the administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the city opened a second front in its fight against illegal guns by suing 27 individual gun dealers across the country in 2006. Announcing the first of those suits with great fanfare and emotion and a City Hall news conference, Mr. Bloomberg called the gun shops "rogue dealers" and "the worst of the worst."In a statement released on Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg expressed disappointment in the decision but said it would have no effect on the suits still pending against the dealers, which claimed a clear violation of gun-sale laws. "Regardless of this ruling, we will continue our fight against illegal guns full-bore — in the courtrooms, on the streets, and in Congress," he said.Twenty of the 27 gun dealers named in the city's two related suits in 2006 have already settled with the city, according to one of their lawyers, John Renzulli. Cases against two other defendants were dismissed, and two dealers lost their businesses.  Of the three remaining cases, one is scheduled for trial this month and the other two in September — before, of all people, Judge Weinstein, Mr. Renzulli said.Mr. Renzulli also represents the gun makers in the case decided on Wednesday. He said he doubted that the appellate ruling would have much of an effect on the dealer cases but added that it was too early to be certain."The reaction is very positive at this point," Mr. Renzulli said. "We're obviously elated that the Second Circuit has seen it our way."Gun makers have been sued dozens of times by city and state officials across the country, but no suit has ever been successful. New York City's suit against the industry, in fact, went further toward a trial than most, said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the National Rifle Association.The city of Gary, Ind., has so far been able to pursue its own case against the gun industry in the Indiana state court system. When he was New York State's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer tried to sue gun makers in the New York courts, but the suit was dismissed in 2003 when a state appellate court ruled that there was no reasonable legal claim in his complaint.In July 2003, after a six-week federal trial, Judge Weinstein dismissed a similar suit against the gun industry brought by the N.A.A.C.P. It had claimed that the practices of the industry amounted to a public nuisance because they permitted guns to fall into the hands of criminals.Judge Weinstein rejected the suit for technical reasons but declared that carelessness and a lack of precautions among some in the business fostered an illegal market in handguns.Mr. Bloomberg has made the fight against illegal guns a signature effort of his second term in office. He has gone to Washington to lobby lawmakers and has appeared at fund-raising dinners for the likes of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, calling illegal guns "scourges to our society."Michael A. Cardozo, the city's corporation counsel, said the city was analyzing the decision to see whether it would appeal to the United States Supreme Court.Reggie Bush will testify June 23 about whether he took cash and gifts while attending Southern California on an athletic scholarship, a San Diego Superior Court judge ruled. Bush, a running back for the New Orleans Saints, is being sued by Lloyd Lake, who says he lent Bush and his family nearly $300,000 in a business deal that fell apart. Bush has denied the charges. The judge, Joan B. Lewis, set the trial for March 13, 2009.Jaime Leigh Fisher and Michael Andrew Proman are to be married on Sunday  at the Rittenhouse Hotel in Philadelphia. Rabbi Ronald M. Shapiro is to officiate.The bride and bridegroom met at Amherst College, from which they graduated.The bride, 25, is an associate at SV Investment Partners, an investment firm in New York.  She is the daughter of Fay W. Fisher and Mark I. Fisher of Vineland, N.J. Her parents own B&B Poultry, a poultry-processing company in Norma, N.J.The bridegroom, 27, is a manager of business development and marketing partnerships at the National Basketball Association in New York.  He is the  son of Nancy  Proman and James  Proman of Minneapolis. The bridegroom's mother  owned until 2004  Maternal Instincts, a maternity clothing store  that was in Edina, Minn. She is now a consultant to other retail  stores on what clothing lines to carry. His father is a lawyer in private practice there.Adrienne Yvonne Lee and Zealous Darrell Wiley III are to be  married on Sunday at the Biltmore in Atlanta. The Rev. Joseph Barta, a member of the Society of Christ's Priesthood, will  officiate.The bride, 30, owns and is the designer of  Frolick  Jewelry, a business in Santa Clara, Calif., which sells to boutiques and department stores in this country and in Tokyo and London. She graduated from the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.She is the daughter of  Loneta Y.  Lee and William E. Lee of Hixson, Tenn. Her father, who is retired, worked in Chattanooga as a manager for the United Parcel Service.The bridegroom, 36, is a senior public relations manager for Yahoo in Sunnyvale, Calif. He graduated from Morehouse College.He is the son of Dr. Brenda B. Spriggs and Dr. Wiley Jr. of San Francisco. His mother, a retired rheumatologist and clinical immunologist, had a private practice there   and was a clinical professor at the University of California, San Francisco. The bridegroom's father, a gastroenterologist, is a founder of the East Bay Center for Digestive Health, a group practice in Oakland, Calif.Ms. Lee and Mr. Wiley met in 2004 at a Friday night business-networking party in Atlanta. Each had been hovering, bored and impatient, as the man Mr. Wiley had arrived with chatted away with one of Ms. Lee's friends."I sat on a little couch to finish my cocktail and Zealous was sitting next to me," Ms. Lee recalled. Mr. Wiley reached for his cellphone, which immediately caught her eye. "Hey, you have the same phone as me," she recalled blurting out.Soon, they, too, were caught  up in conversation and anything but bored.The pair made plans on the spot to go out together on Saturday. "We had so much fun that we went on our second date the next day,"  the bride  said.THE FOOD AND DRUG Administration has ordered Merck & Company to correct numerous manufacturing deficiencies at its main vaccine plant, the agency said Wednesday. (AP)IAC/INTERACTIVECORP said its quarterly profit fell, but it posted promising growth for the Web advertising and media businesses that it will keep after it spins off four units. (REUTERS)THE JDS UNIPHASE Corporation, a telecommunications equipment maker, posted lower-than-expected quarterly revenue as growth at its communications test and measurement segment slowed. (REUTERS)TECHNOLOGYTHE FUTURE DELAYED Sales of Blu-ray stand-alone players fell 40 percent from January to February, according to a survey, the latest indication that many consumers may not see the picture-quality difference. ERIC TAUB nytimes.com/bitsTHE CRAIGSLIST FIGHT EBay's complaint against Craigslist, its founder and its chief executive has now become public.BRAD STONEnytimes.com/bitsSMALL BUSINESSDIFFERENT FACES It's a bit of guidance that some entrepreneurs have trouble accepting: if you insist on doing everything yourself, your business will never grow beyond what you can personally handle.PAUL B. BROWNnytimes.com/smallbusinessAUTOMOBILES A STAR DRIVES BY With the movie version of the classic "Speed Racer" cartoon set to roll out in theaters worldwide, a quick look at the Mach 5 race car, the film's biggest star. PHIL PATTONnytimes.com/wheelsMEDIAONLINE MOVIES Warner Brothers will make films available for online rental, such as through Apple TV, and on cable pay-per-view systems, the same day that it releases them to DVD. SAUL HANSELLnytimes.com/bitsMicrosoft and Yahoo were pushed to the brink of a multibillion-dollar marriage and then to a sudden breakup this weekend by the same player.It was Google, in the odd dual role of both unwitting matchmaker and self-interested  spoiler.Google's phenomenal rise, after all, prodded Microsoft, the dominant technology company for more than two decades, to court Yahoo. And Google's success also weakened Yahoo enough to give Microsoft the sense that it could buy the company at a good price.A combined Microsoft-Yahoo would create a powerful competitor, and Google early on indicated that it would fight the merger on antitrust grounds in Washington and Brussels.But Google played a part in killing the deal, for now at least, by acting more as friend than foe. It offered to let Yahoo use its more sophisticated search advertising technology, which by some estimates would have meant $1 billion in additional cash flow a year for Yahoo. The partnership would also bring Google more revenue.The prospect of such a partnership emboldened Yahoo's board to demand more money for the company and eventually caused Microsoft to rethink its strategy.Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, cited the proposed Google partnership as the main reason for not pursuing a hostile bid and instead walking away on Saturday."Such an arrangement with the dominant search provider would make an acquisition of Yahoo undesirable to us," he wrote Jerry Yang, Yahoo's chief executive, in a letter, and cited five specific reasons Google would be bad for Yahoo.Yahoo may well pursue the partnerships with Google, its main rival, to bolster its depressed stock price. Yahoo shares dropped 15 percent, or $4.30 Monday, to $24.37. The two companies refused to comment.Not surprisingly, analysts are saying the Microsoft-Yahoo story has one clear winner: Google. And its stock price reflected that thinking Monday. More than $4 billion was added to Google's value as the stock price rose 2.34 percent.Not yet 10 years old, Google has emerged as a powerhouse that is wielding tremendous power in the world of technology and beyond. It was able to influence a government auction of broadcast spectrum. It nudged several cellphone companies into opening up their networks to the phones of rivals.Its influence is all the more surprising, because its economic power is still derived largely from a single, seemingly prosaic business: the ability to place interesting text advertisements in front of people when they do searches. Advertisers pay for those ads   — sometimes $1 or less  —  only when users click on them. In a sense, Google has built a highly profitable $16.6 billion empire a dollar at a time."They are the company that is going to have more influence and more control over the structure of the world information industry than any other," said David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. "The right way to think about Google is they are the next Microsoft."The mission set by Google's two founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, to organize all the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful is every bit as ambitious as Microsoft's goal, in the early 1980s, to put a PC on every desk and in every home, said Tim O'Reilly, chief executive of O'Reilly Media."Microsoft succeeded," said Mr. O'Reilly, producer of the Web 2.0 Summit, a high-profile industry conference. "Now Google has an incredibly audacious goal. Great companies do come from big ideas and people who are willing to go after really big ideas."It is the combination of Google's economic power and its unbounded ambition that strikes fear in industry leaders in the world of technology, and beyond, in advertising, media and telecommunications. In part that is because Google wields power more subtly, and perhaps more effectively, than other big companies ever have.For instance, this year Google rattled some of the biggest players in the telecommunications industry. The company played an important role in persuading the Federal Communications Commission to impose "open access" conditions on an auction for a portion of the nation's airwaves. The conditions require that any network using those airwaves allow any phone and any software to run on it. Such a rule breaks the established business model of the cellphone industry, where carriers have significant control over what phones their customers can use.Google backed its lobbying for the conditions with the promise to bid at least $4.6 billion, the minimum price set by regulators for the spectrum. Google then bid that amount, not with the intention of winning, but simply to force the open-access conditions. Verizon Wireless ultimately won rights to the spectrum."They just wanted to saddle a potential competitor with those obligations," said Scott Cleland, a telecommunications analyst and frequent Google critic.Some lawmakers even said Google's role amounted to "gaming the system." Google disputes that accusation, saying it risked its own capital in the auction. Both Google and the F.C.C. said the conditions would benefit consumers."Google has thought very strategically about having to impact the market without necessarily spending a lot of money," Mr. Yoffie said. "It pays to be clever."He saw the same strategy at work in the Microsoft-Yahoo deal. "They played spoiler by giving the Yahoo board confidence that they had a viable economic solution if they turned down the Microsoft offer," Mr. Yoffie said.As Google's clout grows, the company may encounter the same antitrust scrutiny that hobbled Microsoft. Regulators in the United States and Europe investigated Google's merger with DoubleClick for nearly a year before approving it. The Justice Department has already begun asking questions about the antitrust implications in the possible partnership between Google and Yahoo.  Yet it was little more a year ago that Mr.  Ballmer described Google as a one-trick pony in a speech to business school  students at Google's birthplace, Stanford.That remains largely true today. The search ads, as well as similar text ads that Google places on tens of thousands of partner Web sites, still drive the overwhelming majority of the company's revenue. But it is a one-trick pony with the speed and surefootedness of Secretariat.Google's dominance of the search advertising business is overwhelming. In March, Google accounted for almost 60 percent of all searches in the United States, according to comScore. That was nearly triple Yahoo's share of 21.3 percent, and more than six times Microsoft's 9.4 percent share. In some European countries, Google's dominance is even larger.The search advertising business has proved so profitable, that it has allowed Google to make large investments in a long string of other businesses. Few of them make much money now, but analysts say that many of them may some day turn into very profitable enterprises.Google is now the dominant player in online video after its 2006 acquisition of YouTube; it has begun offering, mostly free, a suite of e-mail, word processing, spreadsheet and other programs that compete with two of Microsoft's cash cows, Office and Exchange; it is building software for mobile phones that later this year may compete with Apple's iPhone and others; it has begun selling advertisements on television, radio and newspapers; and with its acquisition of DoubleClick this year, it is going after the market for online banners and graphical ads, which is Yahoo's bread and butter.Google's success is not preordained. The company has yet to prove it can make money in any of these markets beyond online text ads. Even in graphical advertisements online  —  the banners, video ads and social network ads, that marketers use to create brand awareness  —  Google remains a relatively small player. It is an important market that is expected to some day match the search advertising business in size."Search is great, but you can't advertise Coca-Cola in search," said Peter Sealey, a former chief marketing officer at the Coca-Cola Company. "Google is going to try to compete there, but they don't have the same algorithm that they had in search."
