THE conventional wisdom is that private equity firms are focused strictly on the short term.The conventional wisdom is wrong, argues Walter Kiechel III, the former editorial director of Harvard Business School Publishing.True, he concedes, private equity  firms often load debt onto the public companies they acquire, sell off assets and then dispose of the acquired business in a relatively short  time.But what is really going on, he contends in The Harvard Business Review, is that private equity firms are simply applying, albeit very quickly, the best of classic strategic thinking, and their actions can actually improve the acquired company's long-term performance. The fact that a private equity firm sells the company within a relatively short period is irrelevant.Mr. Kiechel says  the important thing is to look at the actions of the private equity  firms. By using leverage efficiently, relentlessly cutting costs and determining the company's major  competitive advantage — and disposing of all assets that do not support it — they are actually positioning the companies  they are acquiring to succeed for the long haul."The difference between the conventional and the P.E. approach to strategy is that the private equity buckoes  put their acquisitions through the formulate-a-strategy-and-start-implementing-it process  in months rather than years," he says. MORE GOVERNMENT BENEFICIARIES The opening sure does get your attention."More than half of all Americans — 53 percent — now depend on government for their income," Katherine Mangu-Ward writes in Reason.The research comes from the economist A. Gary Shilling, who totaled "federal, state, and local government workers, plus private-sector workers who owe their jobs to the government, plus recipients of Social Security, other transfer payments and benefits such as food stamps." As startling as that 53 percent figure is, it is not a record high. In 1980, 55 percent of Americans were receiving money from the government in one form or another.CUTTING DEBT "Two-thirds of all college graduates in America leave school with student loan debt — to the tune of $20,000 on average," Lynnette Khalfani writes in BeE Woman, a relatively new magazine.Depressing though that can be, Ms. Khalfani outlines the following five strategies to  reduce or eliminate that indebtedness:¶Negotiate. The interest rate on federal student loans is not an absolute. While Congress sets a maximum rate, lenders are free to charge less. "Ask for a lower rate in exchange for having payments automatically deducted from your checking and/or because you have a history of paying on time," she suggests.¶Make the boss pay. Many employers will do so, Ms. Khalfani says, if you agree to stay with the company for a certain amount of time.¶Work for the federal government. Under the Federal Student Loan Repayment Program, a federal agency can pay off up to $10,000 of your student loan annually, up to a maximum of $60,000.¶Cite hardships. Sallie Mae, the nation's biggest student lender, offers deferments for "nearly 20 different scenarios," she says. Stay-at-home mothers  with babies, new mothers re-entering the work force, the unemployed and military enlistees all qualify, she says.¶Do good. Police officers, lawyers, teachers, nurses and doctors  can have their loans forgiven, under certain conditions.FINAL TAKE This comes courtesy of Money magazine, citing research done by Capital One: "More Americans use a piggy bank (42 percent) or change jar (65 percent) than a money market account (35 percent.)"PAUL B. BROWNMadeleine B. Stern, a prominent rare-book dealer, biographer and literary sleuth who helped bring to print Louisa May Alcott's long-lost Gothic tales of murder, sexual subjugation, opium dens and other things simply too dreadful to mention, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 95.Ms. Stern's executor, Richard Koch, confirmed the death.With her companion and business partner of many years, Leona Rostenberg, Ms. Stern presided over Rostenberg & Stern Rare Books, run largely from their apartment on Manhattan's Upper East Side. For more than half a century, the two women were an institution in the world of antiquarian bookselling, scouring the United States and Europe for printed treasures. Ms. Stern was also a founder of the New York Antiquarian Book Fair, held annually since 1960.In 1942, Ms. Rostenberg, following clues sprinkled in Alcott's correspondence and other writings, found evidence that Alcott (1832-88), best known for sweet novels like "Little Women," had also written racy potboilers. Published in popular magazines anonymously or under the pseudonym A. M. Barnard, the stories were the pulp fiction of their day, awash in deceit, depravity and death. "Blood-and-thunder tales," Alcott dismissively called them.Starting in the 1970s, Ms. Stern oversaw their publication in assorted volumes.  These included "Behind a Mask: The Unknown Thrillers of Louisa May Alcott" (Morrow, 1975); "Plots and Counterplots: More Unknown Thrillers of Louisa May Alcott" (Morrow, 1976); and "Louisa May Alcott Unmasked: Collected Thrillers" (Northeastern University, 1995), all edited and with introductions by Ms. Stern.The recipient of a Guggenheim fellowship, Ms. Stern wrote or edited dozens of books, among them "Louisa May Alcott," published in 1950 by the University of Oklahoma Press. (The biography was issued in a new edition by Northeastern University in 1999.) Her other biographies include "Purple Passage: The Life of Mrs. Frank Leslie" (University of Oklahoma, 1953), about the wife of a 19th-century publisher of illustrated periodicals, in which many of Alcott's clandestine works first appeared.With Ms. Rostenberg, Ms. Stern wrote several joint memoirs of their heady lives amid dust, morocco and gilded edges: "Old & Rare: Thirty Years in the Book Business" (A. Schram, 1974); "Old Books, Rare Friends: Two Literary Sleuths and Their Shared Passion" (Doubleday, 1997); and "Bookends: Two Women, One Enduring Friendship" (Free Press, 2001).A  stage musical version of "Bookends," written by Katharine Houghton  with music by Dianne Adams and James McDowell, is playing through Sunday at the New Jersey Repertory Company in Long Branch.Madeleine Bettina Stern was born in Manhattan on July 1, 1912. She earned a bachelor's degree in English literature from Barnard College in 1932, followed by a master's in the field from Columbia University in 1934.Ms. Stern and Ms. Rostenberg met in 1929, when both worked as teachers at the Sabbath School of Temple Emanu-El, in Manhattan. They regarded each other with mutual disdain: Ms. Stern was a lowly college freshman, and Ms. Rostenberg, a senior at New York University, was not Ivy League.But a few years later, when the women met again as Columbia graduate students, a warm friendship blossomed, based on their mutual desire for a life of the mind. They eventually took up residence on East 88th Street, amid glass-fronted bookcases, worn silk upholstery and a stately succession of dachshunds.In 1943, Columbia rejected Ms. Rostenberg's doctoral dissertation. (It was on the role of the printer-publisher in influencing public discourse in the 16th century.) To console her, Ms. Stern gave her a box of stationery embossed with the intoxicating words "Leona Rostenberg — Rare Books." With a $1,000  loan from Ms. Stern, Ms. Rostenberg opened her business the next year. Ms. Stern joined her in 1945.Ms. Rostenberg died in 2005, at 96. Ms. Stern leaves no immediate survivors.In interviews over the years, the two women  were asked — often — whether their relationship was romantic. They always demurred, for in the end, they implied, what did the answer really matter? As they wrote in "Old Books, Rare Friends,"  "Our partnership in business is also a partnership in life — the partnership of 'Faithful Friends' who share 'a deep, deep love.' "MOSCOW, Aug. 28 — A Russian court issued an arrest warrant Tuesday for Mikhail S. Gutseriev, a former owner of Russneft, a large young  oil company, on charges of tax evasion and fraud, a month after he published a letter critical of the government on a company Web site and in a Russian business newspaper.The public criticism from a wealthy individual, rare in Russia, had prompted speculation about what lay in store for Mr. Gutseriev in a case with parallels to the 2003 arrest of the oil tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky. That speculation was apparently answered with the order for his arrest.Mr. Gutseriev, however, was likely to have already fled the country,  a spokeswoman for the Russian Interior Ministry, Irina V. Dudukina, said in a telephone interview. It is unclear where he might have gone.Mr. Gutseriev's 100 percent ownership stake in Russneft, a company set up in 2002 and now valued at roughly $6 billion, has been frozen by order of a Moscow court, making him the latest wealthy Russian to fall quickly from a high perch.His predicament sheds light on the capriciousness of the judicial system here, as well as the imperative for business executives to show loyalty to the leadership of President Vladimir V. Putin, analysts of Russian business practices said."People are fighting over assets with no limits or rules," Yulia L. Latynina, a political commentator on the Echo of Moscow radio station, said by telephone. "People are fighting not within the law or within reason, but just out of greed."Mr. Gutseriev was charged earlier in the year with tax evasion and illegal business activity and was ordered to remain within the city limits of Moscow. The arrest warrant was issued after the police suspected that he had left the city, Ms. Dudukina said.In his letter, Mr. Gutseriev contended that the police and tax authorities were colluding with his business rivals to force a sale of his company, which pumps about 3 percent of the country's oil output.He agreed on July 30 to sell to another wealthy Russian, Oleg V. Deripaska, a close ally of Mr. Putin, but made clear that the deal had not been voluntary; he said he was "hounded" out of his business.Mr. Khodorkovsky's business empire collapsed in 2003, after his arrest on fraud and tax evasion charges.  His supporters say that his business, the Yukos oil company, became a Kremlin target after he financed opposition parties in  elections for Parliament. Mr. Gutseriev, by  contrast, maintained low visibility before this summer.A high court in Switzerland has sharply criticized Russia's case against Yukos, the former Russian oil giant that was essentially put out of business by Russian prosecutors after its founder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, clashed with President Vladimir V. Putin. In a decision released this week, the Swiss court denied the prosecutors' efforts to obtain documents about Swiss operations of Yukos and suggested that the prosecutors had repeatedly abused their power. Mr. Khodorkovsky is serving an eight-year prison sentence in Siberia for tax evasion and fraud, charges that his supporters call trumped up.WASHINGTON, Aug. 30 — In amassing $52 million in campaign contributions in the first half of this year, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton relied on a platinum pyramid of 233 "Hillraisers," including the movie director Steven Spielberg, the party powerbroker Vernon E. Jordan Jr., and the real estate mogul William C. Rudin.Another, less famous name on the list, however, has proven a liability to Mrs. Clinton: Norman Hsu, a business executive who turned out to be wanted in connection with a fraud case in California.Mr. Hsu came into the picture with the advent of bundlers, wealthy and well-connected surrogates who can collect stacks of campaign checks from friends, family members and  associates.The system is a byproduct of the $2,300 cap on individual contributions, which has led campaigns to ask their biggest supporters to go beyond simply making donations and to pass the hat. Pioneered in an organized way by George W. Bush in 2000, it has become increasingly important because of the 2002 campaign finance laws that closed the spigot of unrestricted  "soft money" from corporations and other big donors through the political party campaign committees.The six leading primary campaigns have listed a total of nearly 2,000 bundlers.The reliance on bundlers has exploded this year because, for the first time in three decades, the major candidates are planning to turn down public financing in favor of raising and spending money without being subject to any limit.But the proliferation of bundlers, and the ambitious fund-raising goals set out for them by cash-hungry campaigns, has opened the door to a host of embarrassing entanglements, including Mrs. Clinton's ties to Mr. Hsu and President Bush's connections to the jailed lobbyist Jack Abramoff.Although Mr. Hsu is wanted for arrest because he failed to appear in court for a fraud case 15 years ago, he has not been accused of other wrongdoing. His lawyer has denied any campaign finance violations.Still, by outsourcing the solicitation of individual donors to an ad hoc assemblage of the self-interested and the idealistic, the system has exposed campaigns to new risks.It is harder for campaigns to be sure bundlers do not bring in money from illegal contributors.And, campaign lawyers say it is virtually impossible for campaigns to ensure that wealthy bundlers are not, in effect, underwriting contributions from employees, friends or family.Lawrence E. Bathgate II, a New Jersey lawyer who is a former Republican National Committee chairman and a bundler for Senator John McCain of Arizona, said campaigns were forced to rely on the judgments of  surrogates."No candidates can know everybody who is out there raising funds for them," Mr. Bathgate said. "They have to rely on the person who is part of their team, to make sure that person is being very judicious."Mrs. Clinton, of New York, is hardly the only current presidential candidate with a bundler who has had trouble with the law. Of the more than 500 bundlers recognized by Mr. Bush's presidential campaigns, about a dozen have come under investigation for legal violations related to their business dealings. One was Mr. Abramoff, who is serving a prison sentence for bribery.Another was Thomas Noe, an Ohio bundler, who pleaded guilty to embezzling state money and illegally laundering  contributions through his employees.Mitt Romney's campaign for the Republican presidential nomination primary recently returned a $2,300 contribution from Alan B. Fabian, a Maryland bundler indicted on fraud and money laundering charges. The campaign has retained contributions Mr. Fabian solicited on its behalf.Last week, Geoffrey Fieger, a lawyer best known for representing Dr. Jack Kevorkian in his trial for assisting suicides, was indicted on charges of illegally funneling more than $125,000 to the 2004 Democratic presidential  campaign of  John Edwards  through straw donors.Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, another Democratic contender, has given to charity more than $32,000 raised for his Senate campaigns and political action committee by Antoin Rezko, a bundler who was indicted last fall on charges of influence peddling at the Illinois Statehouse and fraud in business.What is more, although it is illegal for a bundler to reimburse a contributor, bundlers often ask for contributions from people on their payroll. All the campaigns have reported concentrations of contributions from employees of companies where a top executive is a bundler. And it is standard practice for bundlers to encourage their lawyers, accountants, business partners and family members to make contributions."I have my own list of people who will help me raise money for a candidate because of some connection to me," said Mr. Bathgate, a lawyer and  developer. "They may have companies with whom I spent a lot of money in the last 12 months through some business venture, or it may be an old deal partner of mine who will run around his house and bundle 10 grand because he made a lot of money in deals with me over the years."Sometimes, he said, "I tell them I need you to do this and I will get their check and their wife's check and their son's check and their son-in-law's check and I will have a FedEx package by the end of the week."Laura MacCleery, who tracks presidential bundling for the advocacy group Public Citizen, argued that the "give and take" undermined the idea that political donations were a form of personal expression — a notion at the heart of Supreme Court decisions on campaign finance."That is why it feels wrong even when it is not technically illegal," Ms. MacCleery said.To the Editor:Re "A Quest to Get More Court Rulings Online, and Free" (Business Day, Aug. 20):I applaud Carl Malamud, the activist who founded public.resource.org, for his work, and I look forward to a time when everyone (not just a select few) have access to law.I was surprised, however, that a leading provider of free, online case law was not mentioned in your article. As a practitioner of appellate law, I find that having timely access to the opinions of the United States Supreme Court is a critical component of my work. I have found that there is no better resource for this than the Legal Information Institute run by Cornell Law School.During Supreme Court terms I receive e-mails describing both cases coming up  and new opinions. Thanks to the Legal Information Institute, I have access to opinions immediately upon release.The Legal Information Institute is a leader in free access to the law and should be commended.Sara B. ThomasChief, Appellate UnitIdaho State Appellate Public DefenderBoise, Idaho, Aug. 21, 2007Arthur Jones, a wild-animal enthusiast, filmmaker and entrepreneur whose Nautilus fitness machines helped to transform the fitness industry and the way ordinary people exercise, died on Tuesday at his home in Ocala, Fla. He was 80.Mr. Jones died of natural causes, his son William Edgar Jones said.Mr. Jones was a rough-and-tumble character who had six wives, a nearly lifelong smoking habit and an affection for exotic animals like rattlesnakes and crocodiles, which he kept at his farm, the younger Mr. Jones said.He tinkered with exercise equipment for more than 20 years before creating his first Nautilus machine, called the Blue Monster, in the late 1960s. Mr. Jones presented the equipment at a Mr. America contest in California and started Arthur Jones Productions to sell the equipment. The company's name was later changed to Nautilus, because the cam, or gear, that was crucial to the machine's success resembled a nautilus.Mr. Jones' invention led to the "machine environment" that is prevalent today in health clubs. The company grew rapidly, and the machines helped to transform dank gyms filled with free weights and hulking men into fashionable fitness clubs popular with recreational athletes."It really took us out of the Stone Ages," said John Wildman, interim chief marketing officer and senior vice president at Bally Total Fitness, the nation's largest health club chain. "When it was just dumbbells and barbells, the perception of the industry was it was just power lifters and bodybuilders."What made the Nautilus machine unique for the time was that the amount of weight being moved changed during the course of one repetition of an exercise, making the workout more efficient.Mr. Wildman said the innovation made the barbell antiquated. "Now, with one of these machines," he said, "you could do a bench press that was better than the bench press you could do with a free weight."Mr. Jones sold his interest in Nautilus in 1986, and the company is now based in Vancouver, Wash.By creating a machine that accommodated human movements, Mr. Jones revolutionized how people exercise, said Greg Webb, a Nautilus vice president of product development, who started working with Mr. Jones in 1977."The idea of a health club really changed," Mr. Webb said. "It became big business. It was Arthur Jones that started that."Arthur A. Jones was born in 1926 in Arkansas and was reared in Oklahoma. His son William said that Mr. Jones, whose parents were doctors, never finished high school but left home and did odd jobs.He served in the Navy in World War II, his son said.From early in his life, Mr. Jones was enamored of animals. He tracked big game in Africa and ran an import-export business for wild animals, flying the animals  himself in old B-25 bombers, his son said.Mr. Jones began filming some of the animals and eventually had a wildlife television show.  The younger Mr. Jones recalled that in the mid-1960s, the whole family moved to Africa, where his father worked on several movies, including "Savage," which Arthur Jones wrote and produced.The Nautilus business grew from its Florida home, and Mr. Jones eventually bought a sprawling farm near Ocala where he kept his airplanes and an assortment of wild animals, including elephants, snakes, alligators, crocodiles and a gorilla named Mickey.In addition to his son William, he is survived by another son, Gary, and two daughters, Eva Jones and Joyce, whose last name was not available.Mr. Jones once said, according to his son, "I shot 630 elephants and 63 men, and I regret the elephants more."The younger Mr. Jones said he thought there might have been some truth to his father's sometimes outrageous statements. "You didn't argue with the man," he said. "Not twice."
