HERE'S one way of dealing with home prices that remain stubbornly high despite the recent downturn: Buy your second home first.Increasingly, that is what people just establishing their careers are choosing to do, Men's Journal reports.A growing number of people in their 20s and early 30s are purchasing weekend or vacation homes, while they continue to rent a place close to where they work."The idea is to get into the housing market and start building equity, even when you might not be entirely ready to land that $800,000 two-bedroom in Manhattan or Los Angeles," Annemarie Conte writes."Plus, there's an undeniable advantage in owning a country home to use as an escape from city life, or even for a few weeks' vacation," she adds. "There's no data on exactly how many are doing this, but real estate experts say it's an increasingly popular option."The difference in price between a primary residence and a getaway house can be substantial.One 32-year-old cited in the article paid $100,000 for a vacation home in upstate New York, about four hours from New York City."Something comparable closer to Manhattan," Ms. Conte noted, "would be at least five times that."SCARY DEALS? Would you buy a "haunted house?"How about one that was the scene of a gangland slaying or where the owner committed suicide?You could end up doing so inadvertently, John Morell writes  in Vacation Homes.In real estate, residences with a sordid past are referred to as "stigmatized properties" and it can be difficult to discover if a house  falls into this category, since neither the seller, nor the seller's real estate agent, may be under any obligation to disclose that information.The advice is to ask your real estate agent or lawyer exactly what sellers are required by law to tell you about a home's past, and be extremely suspicious about a house that is being offered for substantially less than comparable places for no apparent reason.Of course, anyone who does not  mind the potential stigma can get a great deal.As one real estate appraiser noted in the article: "There are buyers who don't bat an eye when told that a house is being offered at a discount because it was the site of a double murder; instead they want to sign the deal right away."ONLY YESTERDAY As part of its special 25th-anniversary issue, PC magazine looks at how quickly technology has evolved in the last quarter-century. Cellphones serve as a case in point.In 1983, the first commercially available one, the Motorola DynaTac 8000X, cost $3,995. "Today, more than 50 percent of consumers pay less than $50 for a phone," the magazine writes.Here are some  other facts:¶Some 30 countries have more cellphone subscriptions than people.¶In 2006, more than 146 million cellphones were sold in the United States.¶"Most phones are retired in 18 months, either by consumers or by companies that toss unsold, outdated models. FINAL TAKE The 72,000-square-foot six-building  six-and-a-half-acre estate in Beverly Hills once owned by the newspaper czar William Randolph Hearst is for sale. The asking price, which Reader's Digest describes as "the highest ever for a residential property" in the United States, is  $165 million.The home, which features 29 bedrooms, 41 baths and 3 swimming pools, is recognizable "to millions because its exterior was used in 'The Godfather' to establish the posh setting for the infamous horse-head scene."Let's see if someone makes an offer that cannot be refused.Shortly before Thanksgiving, Eric R. Dinallo, the insurance regulator for New York State, did something unusual. He called Warren E. Buffett's right-hand man on insurance, Ajit Jain, and suggested that he start a new company to insure municipal bonds in New York.Mr. Jain, who oversees one of the biggest insurance portfolios in the business at a subsidiary of Mr. Buffett's holding company, Berkshire Hathaway, was surprised. He had never heard from an insurance regulator offering a new business idea."I thought, gee, I wonder what he's calling to complain about," Mr. Jain said in an interview on Tuesday.Within a little more than a month, Mr. Dinallo had cut through red tape to issue a license to Berkshire to sell bond insurance to municipalities in New York.In the last days of December, as the financial strength ratings of the old bond insurance companies were under pressure and the insurers were being forced to put up additional capital, Mr. Buffett announced the start of his new company, the Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation.The new company sold its first insurance  Tuesday, on a $10 million bond issued by New York City.  "We're tip-toeing  into the market," Mr. Jain said, "doing very small deals. We want to see if we can get the pricing that we find acceptable to us. Once we find this is real, we'll put in a lot more capital."Insurance regulators generally operate with an abundance of caution, well below the radar. Not Mr. Dinallo. He has been the superintendent of insurance in New York for just less than a year. His job, he says, is to encourage insurers and protect insurance customers and to come up with ways to do both."He's 180 degrees apart from the regulators I've dealt with," Mr. Jain said. "He's a guy in a hurry. He's constantly pushing. He called me up personally and made his pitch. He said, "This is a very important issue for me personally and for the department.'"When Mr. Dinallo phoned, he was thinking far beyond the insurance department. New York City, the state and other municipalities issue about $32 billion in bonds annually. The subprime lending crisis had begun spilling over to the bond insurers, and Mr. Dinallo could see a time when it might not be possible to sell bonds for a project like a bridge, a highway or maybe a sewer network. "I needed to make sure we had adequate capacity to insure municipal bonds," Mr. Dinallo said.Mr. Dinallo knew that financial strength was essential to the bond insurance business and that Berkshire Hathaway had the highest ratings, triple-A. The municipal bond business depends on the triple-A rating. Cities buy insurance with the understanding that the insurers' triple A-rating will transfer to their bonds. With the highest possible rating and almost no risk, the city issuing the bonds can pay lower interest on its bonds.Take New York City, for example, with a double-A rating. It might have to pay $15 million to $20  million to insure a billion-dollar bond. But as a result of the triple-A rating, the lower interest rate would more than offset the cost of insurance. The triple-A rating would also make the bond more desirable to many investors and, best of all, for Berkshire, there would be very little chance of having to make a payout on the insurance.As it turned out Berkshire Hathaway was trying to figure out how to capitalize on the troubles in the municipal bond market and was ready to move when the phone rang. Both sides came together in a meeting in New York. "We talked very quickly and we reached middle ground on a number of issues," Mr. Jain said.A couple of snags were swiftly overcome. To be a New York company, Berkshire, with its main insurance offices in Stamford, Conn., would technically need to run its new business from offices in New York. But Mr. Dinallo agreed that Berkshire could set up a token office in New York and do most of its work in Connecticut.For its part, Berkshire agreed to put up $105 million in capital to start, $30 million more than the minimum required by New York. But "to minimize the amount of capital trapped in the entity," Mr. Jain said, Mr. Dinallo worked out a way for Berkshire to increase its leverage by permitting it to exceed the usual limits on reinsurance, or insurance on the risk the new company acquired."Usually insurance regulators take out some rule book and show you some clause on page so-and-so and tell you why something cannot be done," Mr. Jain said.Mr. Dinallo, who is 44 and graduated from New York University Law School, is fairly new to insurance. But he learned how to break china for what he regards as the public good as a senior aide to Eliot Spitzer when Mr. Spitzer was  New York State's attorney general. He spent three years learning about banking regulation as a managing director of regulatory affairs at Morgan Stanley.For a year before his old boss was elected governor, Mr. Dinallo served as general counsel for the Willis Group, one of the smallest but feistiest of the world's leading insurance brokers, a group of businesses that Mr. Spitzer had made miserable. Mr. Spitzer accused the brokers of conflicts of interest and forced them to hand over hundreds of millions of dollars in penalties.Mr. Dinallo began to show his colors in a dispute over insurance payments resulting from the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in 2001. The courts said Larry A. Silverstein, the owner of the site, was owed several billion dollars. He wanted the money, but the insurers resisted for several years. Mr. Dinallo laid down a deadline of four weeks to resolve the matter; now it is history.  The insurers agreed to pay."We told them we thought this was a black eye for the insurance industry and for the real estate industry," Mr. Dinallo said. "Both sides were acting unreasonable. If Silverstein can't get paid, how am I ever going to get my homeowner's policy paid."Typically, getting a license to start a new insurance company takes months if not years in any state. It can take 18 months to get permission to sell a slightly new variation on a life or home or auto insurance policy. That crawling pace — at a time when financial data and every other kind of information is flashing across computer screens at warp speed — has given great momentum to a drive in the United States to take insurance regulation out of the hands of state officials and create a centralized insurance regulator in Washington.The state regulators, not surprisingly, are opposed to federal regulation. They want to keep their jobs, and  Mr. Dinallo has some tips to help them do that. "There are lines of business," he said, "where nimbleness is actually important, and I think the states can move as fast or faster than a federal regime. It's O.K. to show some leadership and demonstrate where state regulation can add value."One thing restraining many insurance regulators is a fear that if they come up with bright ideas for a particular company they could be accused of favoritism. Mr. Dinallo shot right past that. "I wouldn't say it's favoritism," he said. "I'd say it's an indication of a calculation of who I thought we could license the fastest, the company with the right kind of capital and unencumbered capital that could come into the marketplace right away."Maybe it is not them.If employee turnover and absenteeism within the company are too high, and productivity and morale  too low,  the person in charge may be the one at fault.To find out how good — or  bad — a boss you are, the National Federation of Independent Business, a small business advocacy group, suggests asking yourself these questions:1. Have you ever publicly criticized an employee?2. Do you take credit for your employees' work?3. Do your employees fear you?4. Do you expect employees to do what you tell them without question?5. Do you believe employees should know what to do without you telling them or providing guidelines?6. Are you a yeller?7. Do you demean employees as a form of punishment?8. Do you play favorites?9. Do you hate delegating?10. Do you check everyone's work?According to the answer key, the more "yes" answers, the greater the likelihood you are a bad boss.A SHORT CHECKLIST Given that Trevor Gay wrote a book called "Simplicity Is the Key"  — published in Britain by Kingsham Press in 2004 — it is not surprising that he has come up with a basic list of the differences between good and bad bosses.In his 35 years of work (in the health care industry), Mr. Gay said he discovered that his best  bosses had these attributes:¶ "Inspired confidence¶ Were humble¶ Had integrity¶ Knew what they were talking about¶ Let me get on with things¶ Were always there when I needed help¶ Usually said, 'Yes, try it.'"His  worst bosses, he said, had these deficiencies:¶ "Never seemed to be around when I needed them¶ Always asked me to justify what I wanted to do¶ Always wanted to know what I was doing¶ Often said 'no, we can't do that'¶ Gave the impression of being distrustful¶ Didn't smile much¶ Talked about themselves a lot."HOW TO BE A BAD BOSS Paul Lemberg, an executive coach, has compiled a list of ways weak bosses can hinder an employee's performance.His advice to those bosses is to "stop immediately," if they are doing any of the following:¶ You don't give employees a  clear and compelling company direction. When people align themselves with the company's goals, they are free to invent, to improvise, to innovate, to inspire each other.¶ You say important things only once. If the message is important, it is worth repeating.¶ You don't hold employees accountable.¶ You concentrate on trying to improve employees' shortcomings. "Bad bosses waste too much energy on employee makeovers. Don't worry about weaknesses — instead, figure out what employees are really good at and train them to be brilliant."TAKE THE QUIZ Working America, which is affiliated with the A.F.L.-C.I.O., writes on its Web site that it works "against wrong-headed priorities favoring the rich and corporate special interests over America's well-being."That apparently does not keep them from having a sense of humor.The organization has created a 10-question quiz to help employees figure  how bad their boss is.The quiz presents a situation and then asks if it sounds "like something your boss would do."For example, "someone in your family has died unexpectedly," it says. "You are devastated, but feel touched when your normally cheap boss sends flowers to the funeral. The next month you find out your boss has taken the money for flowers out of your paycheck."The Web site says questions like this one are based on real events.LAST CALL Writing in Inc., Leigh Buchanan offers several signs to bosses that their  employees probably hate them. These are our two favorites:"You never see people walk by. Employees would rather circumnavigate the entire office to get to the coffee machine or bathroom than take the shortcut past your door and risk being invited in."Employees do not volunteer for the boss's pet projects. It could be because the idea is bad, and they are afraid to say that. Or the idea may  be good, but they are petrified of what will happen if they let the boss  down. Or since it is the boss's  pet project, he will  probably work on it as well. "Which means more time spent ...gulp ...with you."Jeffrey S. Raikes, a 26-year veteran of Microsoft and leader of the company's lucrative Office business, plans to retire later this year. The company announced on Thursday that it was reaching outside its ranks for his successor, Stephen Elop, 44, the former chief operating officer of Juniper Networks.Mr. Raikes, 49, is the third-longest-tenured executive at Microsoft, after the chairman, Bill Gates, and chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer.Mr. Raikes joined Microsoft in 1981 as employee No. 105. His future wife, Tricia, was employee No. 75. "We were the first Microsoft couple," he recalled in an interview on Thursday evening.He moved to Microsoft from Apple, where he worked for less than two years, though he did his first computing on an Apple II machine,  tracking expenses and yields on his family's farm in Nebraska. Explaining the move, Mr. Raikes said that Microsoft understood that software would be a large business in a way that Apple did not.Most of his career, Mr. Raikes said, was spent building Microsoft's Office business, including its popular word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and e-mail programs. "I marvel at the fact that more than 500 million people now use the Office tools every day," he said.Mr. Raikes said he had made no decision about what he would do after he retired from Microsoft in September, but he doubted he would work in software.In the last few months, Mr. Raikes has bought 1,800 acres of farmland in Nebraska, not far from his family's 2,600-acre farm. That land is near a corn ethanol fuel plant. "With the price of corn at this level, agribusiness looks awfully attractive," he said.Mr. Raikes, whose personal wealth is estimated at several hundred million dollars, is also an active philanthropist, focusing mainly on education.The Microsoft business division generated sales of more than $16 billion last year and had operating profit of $10.8 billion. But Office business faces a long-term challenge from the Internet, as Google and other rivals offer online alternatives to Microsoft's desktop programs, said Dwight B. Davis, an analyst for Ovum, a research firm.Condé Nast Publications announced a management shake-up on Monday, including the departure of Mitchell B. Fox, one of the company's highest-ranking executives and a former publisher of Details and Vanity Fair.Executives at Condé Nast, a unit of Advance Publications, said the moves were aimed at strengthening marketing and advertising, especially across multiple magazines, and giving more power to people seen as having strengths in those areas.The moves, made by Charles H. Townsend, president and chief executive of Condé Nast, group together magazines with overlapping audiences or themes. They also streamline the upper ranks of Condé Nast, one of the world's biggest magazine publishers."Chuck believes that this restructuring is a better contemporary reflection of how we actually do business," said Maurie Perl, a spokeswoman for Condé Nast.Mr. Fox, whose title was group president, held a broad, fragmented portfolio as publishing director of three groups:  the golf publications, including Golf Digest; the Fairchild fashion magazines, including Women's Wear Daily; and the bridal magazines.Other executives who were forced out were Amy Churgin, a senior vice president overseeing sales for the Condé Nast Media Group, which includes most of the company's magazines; and Alexandra Golinkin, a vice president and publisher of Lucky.David Carey, also a group president and publishing director of Condé Nast Portfolio, was named publishing director of Wired Media, a group that includes the magazine Wired, and the golf magazines.Thomas A. Florio, who has overseen Vogue and most of the related titles, took over Teen Vogue as well. William Wackermann, publisher of Glamour, will also oversee the  bridal magazines. Both gained the titles of senior vice president and publishing director."The thinking is that with the brands working together, we can leverage some marketing opportunities," Mr. Florio said.Louis Cona, who had been publisher of The New Yorker, was promoted to senior vice president of Condé Nast Media Group, overseeing sales and marketing, an expanded version of Ms. Churgin's former job.Drew Schutte took over at The New Yorker, with the titles of vice president and publishing director, giving up his post as publishing director of Wired Media to Mr. Carey.Gina Sanders, who had been publisher of Teen Vogue, ceded that magazine to Mr. Florio, and became a vice president and publisher of Lucky, taking Ms. Golinkin's place.Mr. Fox, 52, had been considered one of Condé Nast's rising stars for most of his 18 years at the company. He was seen as a favorite of Steven T. Florio, who stepped down as chief of Condé Nast in 2004, and was regarded as a contender to succeed Mr. Florio. That job went to Mr. Townsend, however.In the post he has held since a 2005 restructuring, Mr. Fox said, "My abilities and talents were being underutilized." He declined to elaborate, but colleagues interpreted the comment as referring to the company's increased emphasis on sales and marketing.Advance is a privately held company controlled by S. I. Newhouse Jr., its press-shy, 80-year-old chairman and chief executive.To the Editor:Re "How to Build a $2,500 Car" (Business Day, Jan. 8):Tata Motors of India is proud of bringing its $2,500 car to the people of India, but this is a symbol of India's backward thinking, not its progressiveness.The last thing India's choked roads need is more cars on them. India ignores the considerable advantages of its belated development: it enjoys up-to-the-minute technology and more than half a century of hindsight on the successes and failures of other industrialized societies.Instead of creating a new vision, India is content to copy mid-20th-century Western patterns of unplanned, unsustainable, highly consumptive development, even though these proved deeply flawed long ago.Even if India succeeds brilliantly, its retrograde mind-set ensures that it will remain second-rate.Mark B. JacobsPondicherry, India, Jan. 8, 2008
