A federal appeals court yesterday extended a long-running dispute over unpaid life insurance claims brought by victims of the Holocaust and their families, potentially reopening a case that many thought had been resolved.Lawyers for Assicurazioni Generali, an Italian insurance company at the center of the dispute, interpreted the court's decision as limited. But the lawyer who brought the appeal said it cleared the way for renewed arguments about many issues regarding insurance claims and Holocaust victims.Those issues, involving hundreds of thousands of policyholders and, by some estimates, billions of dollars in coverage, are being further revived this morning in a Congressional hearing in Washington by lawmakers who say that victims of the Holocaust have been treated unfairly by insurance companies and social agencies.The court case seemed closed in February after a federal judge in Manhattan approved the settlement of a class-action lawsuit against Generali. More than 20 European insurers had been sued by policyholders since the late 1990s, but the other cases had been settled or dropped, leaving only the lawsuit against Generali.The Generali settlement, which had lingered for nearly 10 years, provided less money than Holocaust survivors had hoped for and seemed to end any hope of the survivors ever gaining access to the insurer's Holocaust-era records. But lawyers for the policyholders said they were throwing in the towel because they lacked the evidence to win the case.In approving the agreement, Judge George B. Daniels  noted that "the settlement is not perfect" but added that he thought it might be "the only real opportunity for any monetary recovery" by the Holocaust victims and their families.But in a terse summary order issued yesterday, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, said that Generali and the lawyers for the policyholders had failed to notify Holocaust-era policyholders adequately about the settlement and thus denied them an opportunity to object to the terms.The court ordered Generali and the plaintiffs' lawyers to mail notices of the settlement individually to "all class members whose names are known" by the insurers within 60 days and scheduled a new hearing on the fairness of the settlement before Judge Daniels by Jan. 7.Robert Wexler, the Florida Democrat and chairman of the Europe subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, which is holding the hearing today, said that since the Holocaust, European insurance companies have "both inadvertently and purposely sought to minimize their liability."More than 870,000 life insurance policies covering Jews were in effect in Europe at the start of World War II, Mr. Wexler said, and "only 17,000 of those policies have been paid."Sam Dubbin, the Miami lawyer who filed the appeal, said Generali had more than 50,000 names of people who could be notified. But lawyers for Generali and the policyholders said they did not know how many names of policyholders the insurer had in its files. It has consistently argued that many of its records were destroyed.Lawyers for Generali and policyholders who agreed to the settlement earlier said they thought wider publicity on the case would not significantly alter benefits for the Holocaust victims and that by challenging the settlement, Mr. Dubbin was delaying payment of claims.But Thane Rosenbaum, a son of Holocaust survivors and a professor at the Fordham University law school who has also argued against the settlement, said the ruling and the Congressional hearing could "exert the kind of pressure — a kind of one-two punch — that will lead, finally, to some justice for Holocaust survivors as they approach the end of their lives."Robert A. Swift, a lawyer in Philadelphia who represented policyholders in the settlement, said he and Generali were convinced that their efforts to publicize the agreement around the world through newspaper advertisements, press releases and charitable organizations were "very effective — and the results tell us it was."Mr. Swift said more than 20,000 people filed more than 30,000 claims by the general deadline on March 31. Previously, Generali had agreed to pay $135 million on 5,500 claims filed since the late 1990s. Generali said in a statement yesterday that it had paid an additional $40 million through international organizations.Mr. Swift and lawyers for Generali said they could not estimate how much more might be paid in connection with the 30,000 new claims. But they suggested some of the claims were probably not valid."I know a very large number of those claims come from Russia, but we never did business in Russia," said Marco E. Schnabl, a lawyer in New York for Generali.Mr. Schnabl and Mr. Swift said no payments would be made in connection with the settlement until it was ruled final. The challenges to the settlement, Mr. Schnabl said, "have effectively put all of this" in suspension.The problem is as simple as it basic."For a small company, getting paid on time can mean the difference between having cash for an expansion and borrowing to pay the bills," Hannah Clark writes in Inc. "But if you're a minor vendor, you may be last on your customers' payment priority list."One solution is to get customers to pay in advance. Clients will do so, Ms. Clark says, if offered the right incentives.Clearly, giving them a discount is one option. But before suggesting a lower price, ask them what it will take to get them to pay early. It may be a better price, but they may  prefer priority shipping, custom packaging or some other special service instead.CASH FLOW  For a solid checklist of how to handle the money that comes in, read (or reread) "Small-Business Cash Flow: What to Do with Every Dollar That Comes In," by Jeffrey Moses. The article  can be found on the Web site of the National Federation of Independent Business, an advocacy organization representing small and independent businesses.As Mr. Moses writes: "Prudent cash-flow management requires that you maintain an established, systematic procedure for handling deposited income. A systematic approach protects against overlooking immediate payments, assists in allocating for planned future expenses, tightens overall cost analysis, maximizes profitability and helps build retirement accounts."These are among his suggestions:¶Put part of every deposit into your retirement account. "Doing so immediately will prevent the money from dribbling away."¶ Create a fund dedicated to estimated taxes.¶ Create another fund to handle payroll, to make record keeping simpler.Finally, Mr. Moses suggests that  every item of the  checklist  "be coordinated with your overall business plan." This, he said, "will keep your cash flow aligned with business goals. The more strictly you can adhere to your master cash-flow checklist, the more efficient your business will be."PAST DUE One way to have more money coming in is to tackle a job many entrepreneurs hate: collecting receivables.Gaebler Ventures, a business incubator and holding company based in Chicago, offers these four tips:1. Don't wait. "The worst thing you can do is to procrastinate. Don't put off the collection process in the blind hope that the check may  be in the mail. Chances are it's not in the mail  and won't be until you send a friendly reminder in the form of a letter or phone call."2. Create a schedule for following up. Plan on mailing a reminder 10 days after the bill is due, and making a phone call after four weeks. Whatever your schedule stick to it. "Working a schedule gives your collection process the advantage of consistency. Consistency reminds your customers of their outstanding obligations. Often, a customer will pay the invoice for no other reason than to stop receiving reminders."3. "Be flexible, but firm. Occasionally, extenuating circumstances do arise. When they do, work with your customers to establish a mutually acceptable repayment schedule that is realistic and fair." As part of that payment plan, makes sure to establish repayment dates and hold the client to them.4. Know when to give up.  There are going to be some overdue accounts that will never pay up, regardless of the steps taken. Turn them over to a collection agency and hope for the best.LEARN MORE Looking for a source of basic information about how to start a business? Powerhomebiz.com can help. It offers  tips and articles like  "Ten Ways to Get Started on Your Own Home Business."Be warned. The placement of the ads in the middle of the articles is annoying, and the Web site features flashing banner advertising at the top of the page, but that is apparently the price of free information.LAST CALL The magazines devoted to small business invariably put a young (or youngish) person on the cover. Maybe those publications need to come with a truth-in-advertising disclaimer.Some 31 percent of small business owners are 55 or over, according to the  Census Bureau. Another 29 percent are  45 to  54. Only 2 percent of owners were younger  than 25.DALLAS, Oct. 1 (AP) — The Belo Corporation said Monday that it planned to spin off its newspapers, which have been struggling to keep readers and advertising dollars, into a new company that will operate separately from its 20 television stations.Investors had pressed Belo to consider splitting the TV and newspaper businesses, but its chairman and chief executive, Robert W. Decherd,  resisted. In February, he said the newspaper side of the company was too small to stand on its own.On Monday, Mr. Decherd said the split recognized the "profound" changes in both businesses, and was good for shareholders.Mr. Decherd will run the newspaper business, which will be called the A. H. Belo Corporation. It will own the company's flagship paper, The Dallas Morning News; The Providence Journal; and The Press-Enterprise of Riverside, Calif.In the second quarter of this year, revenue at Belo's TV stations rose 2.5 percent from a year earlier, but revenue at the newspapers fell 8.5 percent on weak advertising conditions. The housing slump in Southern California has hurt The Press-Enterprise, and the Dallas paper is still digging out from overstating circulation figures several years ago.Mr. Decherd said the spinoff should improve investors' outlook on the financial health of Belo because, "We're taking the assets that are perceived as being most challenged, and moving them out."Both A. H. Belo and the Belo Corporation will remain based in Dallas and have two voting classes of common stock after the spinoff — Series A shares that carry one vote per share, and Series B stock with 10 votes per share. That structure, currently used by Belo and many other media companies, forms a high barrier to hostile takeovers.The spinoff is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2008.Shares of Belo rose $3.25, or 19 percent, to $20.61.FOR the last few years, deal makers have been popping Champagne corks and swinging from chandeliers. Now they are popping aspirin and sweeping up the pieces.Despite the stock market's recent run, the buyout bubble has burst, and some of the biggest names on Wall Street, including Henry Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company and Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, have found themselves wishing they could back out of some of the deals they agreed to just months ago, before the credit market seized up, and still hold on to their blue-chip reputations.The hangover may fade, but some effects will linger. Every cycle creates its own lessons, and the latest one will probably lead to a rewrite of the rules for the suspender-wearing set. Aggressive pricing, loose financing and conflicted roles,  all of which helped to create the biggest mergers-and-acquisitions period in history, are apt to become rare, at least until the next deal-making boom erases memories of the last bust."Will people learn their lessons?" asked James B. Lee Jr., vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase, who has been making deals for 32 years and has found himself in the middle of several renegotiated and nearly aborted sales. He  answered his own question: "There will come a point in time when this will all happen again, just not on our watch."That is not to say that some big strategic transactions will not be made, as shown by the announcement on Tuesday that TD Bank would acquire Commerce Bank for $8.5 billion. Foreign companies may continue to shop for acquisitions in the United States, hoping to take advantage of the weak dollar.But the business of undoing deals has become the immediate focus, turning the world of private equity, once genteel, into a series of billion-dollar spats and not so thinly veiled threats. Public companies, which had been running into the arms of private equity and large takeover premiums, have become more reluctant.Of all the expected changes in the buyout environment, the biggest is already the most evident:  deals will slim down substantially, largely because of the disappearance of cheap debt. Six months ago, the possibility of a $100 billion private equity deal seemed almost realistic; today it is laughable.Under pressure from banks that have taken on big losses from debt originally priced too high — Citigroup wrote down $1.4 billion in the value of leveraged loans this week — private equity firms will have to pony up more cash to finance their leveraged buyouts. There is an old line on Wall Street: L.B.O. firms like their deals the way James Bond likes his martinis: extra dry. In the case of buyout firms, that means with as little equity as possible. The banks, which had been happy to mix this cocktail, have now taken the drink off the menu."I have spoken to the senior leaders of most financial institutions, and they have said, 'This is a good time to revisit the way we do business,' " said Donald J. Gogel, chief executive of the equity firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, describing how lending practices will get much tougher.Over the summer Mr. Gogel found himself in the unusual spot of pressing to renegotiate the price of the firm's deal to buy Home Depot's wholesale supply unit, partly because of pressure from banks that had lent money for the transaction on terms that would cause them to lose hundreds of millions of dollars.In a business where reputations are often as important as bank account balances, trying to wiggle out of deals creates a conundrum. Private equity firms want to avoid alienating the big banks by trying to accommodate concerns about price, but they also feel compelled to honor their agreements. In August, George R. Roberts, a founder of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, said, "We made commitments to the boards of directors, and we expect those transactions to close."Nonetheless, deals appear to be unraveling or getting renegotiated as quickly as they were put together. Within the last two weeks, Sallie Mae's buyers said they planned to abandon their $25 billion deal unless they got a lower price, and Kohlberg Kravis and Goldman Sachs said they would ditch their $8 billion acquisition of Harmon International, which makes audio systems.In both cases, the buyers contended that those businesses had deteriorated so much that their contracts were void. On Monday, Silver Lake Partners and ValueAct Capital said they had negotiated to pay $65 million to get out of acquiring Acxiom for $2.25 billion.These collapsing deals could convey another lesson, this one for sellers: buyers will not necessarily stand by their deals if things turn sour."There was a lot of concern about how this would have a negative impact on reputation," said Hamilton E. James, the president of Blackstone Group and the heir apparent to chief executive Stephen A. Schwarzman.  Some people in the industry had worried that private equity firms would have a hard time making acquisitions because companies would not want to do business with them in the future. And while it is still too early to tell, Mr. James said, "The world doesn't appear to be reacting that way."Although Mr. Gogel said these broken deals could leave some bad feelings surrounding the industry, he doesn't expect them to last. "If I'm on a board of a target company, I'm going to inquire about the situation," he said. But he added: "I don't believe that there will be permanent reputational damage unless the fact pattern shows a firm acted in bad faith. People realize that the world changed."One reason that buyers have been so willing to walk is the recent advent of the termination fee, also called a reverse-breakup fee.Devised in the last two years, a termination fee allows private equity firms to abandon deals by paying a lump sum. It was originally intended to encourage firms to complete deals but has turned into a double-edged sword. With a termination fee in place, many private equity firms have decided simply to pay their way out of an undesirable deal.Before the reverse-breakup fee existed, if a firm broke its deal, its reputation would take a big hit.  But now, Mr. James contends, a broken deal is just a business transaction. "It's changed the tenor of the discussion in a fundamental way," he said.Will termination fees get terminated? Just the opposite, many on Wall Street say. They are likely to become much, much more expensive, making them less attractive as an escape hatch for private equity firms with cold feet.Deal makers have also learned the downside of staple financing, a tool created during the last boom that had advisers to sellers also offering loans to buyers — think of vendor financing circa 1999. This practice created a collision of interests, as demonstrated by the renegotiated sale of Home Depot's supply unit. Lehman Brothers had advised Home Depot on the sale and  offered financing to the buyers. When the credit market shifted, however, Lehman Brother turned on Home Depot and told the buyers that it could finance the deal only at a lower price."The awkwardness of staple financing is that you end up with two competing client interests, Mr. James said. "It's an awful place to be."Banks should move away from staple financing. I think it would be better for everyone."Oddly enough, one aspect of bank lending practices may revert  to the mid-1980s, the heyday of Michael Milken and Drexel Burnham Lambert. Instead of banks providing loans to buyout firms and corporations with virtually no ability to get out of them — the way they did in this most recent cycle — they could bring back the "highly confident" letter.These letters, which Mr. Milken invented, simply indicated that a bank would tell a target that it was highly confident it could finance the deal. They were a far cry from the virtually iron-clad commitment letters signed in recent years, when banks did cartwheels to snag business — a highly lucrative practice when things were good, but painful when things turned bad.Much of how well the lessons are learned will depend on how quickly deal activity recovers from the summer slump. A fast rebound could mean that all is forgiven. If things stay slow, however, buyout firms, banks and lawyers will have plenty of time to think about things they would have done differently and look in the mirror."All you have is your reputation," Andy Kessler, a former hedge fund manager, wrote in his book "Wall Street Meat" after the dot-com bubble burst. "Taint it and someone else will fill your shoes. Longevity comes from maintaining that reputation."House Calls to the HomeboundTo the Editor:"Retro Medicine: Doctors Making House Calls (for a Price)" (Sept. 23) described patients who often pay out of pocket for convenient but limited care.A more common model of house calls serves a very different purpose. Over 1,000 health professionals nationwide provide home visits to some of the estimated two million homebound Americans who cannot get to a traditional doctor's office, rather than those who prefer not to.Our academic home visit program serves over 1,100 homebound residents of Manhattan suffering from strokes, end-stage dementia, cancer, cardiac and pulmonary disease. Home visits for homebound patients are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and some commercial plans. The goal of home-based medical care is to prevent costly and unnecessary emergency-room visits, hospitalizations, and nursing home placements by providing relatively low-cost, patient-centered care to this disenfranchised population.Theresa A. Soriano, M.D, M.P.H.David Muller, M.D.Manhattan, Sept. 24Dr. Soriano is director of the Mount Sinai Visiting Doctors Program, and Dr. Muller, a co-founder of the program, is dean for medical education at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine.The M.B.A. InvestmentTo the Editor:"Bye, Bye B-School" (Sept. 16) correctly showed that an M.B.A. degree is not for everyone.The M.B.A. program was never designed as a personal get-rich-quick plan. It's about entrepreneurship, building organizations and preparing for a lifetime of principled leadership in all kinds of operations — not just on Wall Street, but around the world.For a significant number of young women and men, business school provides valuable knowledge, skills and perspectives that will transform potential into a real capacity for leadership. A rigorous M.B.A. education is an excellent long-term investment.W. Carl KesterBoston, Sept. 19The writer is a finance professor and deputy dean for academic affairs at the Harvard Business School.Virginia Knauer Burden, a daughter of Valerie Burden and I. Townsend Burden III of Washington, was married yesterday to Jeffrey Paul Hart, a son of Judith A. Hart and Paul B. Hart of Chesterfield, N.J. The Rev. Dr.  Edward J. DeSilva performed the ceremony at Chesterfield Baptist Church.Ms. Burden, 32, is keeping her name. She is the director of American and European furniture at Sloans & Kenyon, auctioneers and appraisers in Chevy Chase, Md.. She is also a trustee for the Frick Art and Historical Center in Pittsburgh. She graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania. She has two master's degrees, one in government administration from Penn, and the other in the history of decorative arts from the Parsons School of Design.Her father is a partner in the Secor Group, an investment firm in Washington.  She is a descendant of Henry Clay Frick, the industrialist.Mr. Hart, 34, works in Herndon, Va., as a consultant with Nokia Siemens Networks; he provides business and operational advice to companies in the wireless communications industry. He graduated from Cornell, from which he also received an M.B.A.His father, who is retired, was a systems administrator for Dow Jones & Company, in South Brunswick, N.J. The bride's previous marriage ended in divorce.ATOOSA RUBENSTEIN was living the dream of flocks of girls who pore over fashion magazines, hungry for womanhood. The founder and the editor of CosmoGirl magazine and the editor of Seventeen, she had money, glamour and a national platform to disseminate her ideas. Yet last year, Hearst magazines' youngest editor in chief flew what she calls the gilded cage.Now nesting in a $3.05 million Flatiron District apartment that she and her husband, an owner of an investment trading company, moved into on Saturday, Ms. Rubenstein this week ended some of the speculation about what exactly she has been cooking up since last fall and reiterated that her departure was of her own volition."I think there was this perception that nobody leaves that kind of job," she said, against a backdrop of cardboard boxes and a tabletop statue of Venus de Milo. "Whether it's because of the salary or the prestige, you know, whatever someone's currency is, nobody leaves that — unless it's going to be for something bigger. And for me I left because I realized that I was stepping farther and farther away from the journey that was meaningful to me."That journey began in earnest about a decade ago, when Ms. Rubenstein's confessional, conspiratorial CosmoGirl voice charmed readers who felt as if she genuinely cared about their boy trouble and pimple anguish. If a diary could talk back with advice and solace, it might sound like Ms. Rubenstein.For her part, Ms. Rubenstein is acutely aware of the young adults in midblossom who see her as a self-assured role model. Yet as the Rapunzel-editor in her high tower, she said, she had begun to feel walled off from the legions of aspirers.So Ms. Rubenstein, 35, did what anyone who wants to feel closer to other people does nowadays. She went digital. Beginning today, she is posting a series of YouTube videos inspired by the book "The Philosophy of Andy Warhol: (From A to B and Back Again)." The videos — two episodes a week for a month — are aimed at women 15 to 35 and star Ms. Rubenstein as an animated Warhol portrait (youtube.com/alphakitty). They were directed by the artist Bec Stupak.In one video Ms. Rubenstein opines, lightheartedly, that insecurity is unattractive in women. In another, she points out that reading is essential "conversational jewelry." In a third she predicts that the next major style icon will be a drag queen.Ms. Rubenstein was drawn to video because "it's living and breathing content," she said. "It just connects on a more emotional level."Even while still at Seventeen, she had begun cultivating the magazine's devotees through a MySpace page. She made them her friends. More than 30,000 of them. She wrote to them collectively in her MySpace posts about sex and God and celebrity in that intimate, girlish magazine voice: "I was thinking of you." She signed off like a first love, with xx's. She responded to their individual e-mail messages and online comments. And she anointed them — her "posse," her "tribe" — with a name: alpha kitties.It sounds like the name of a burlesque troupe or a coterie of anime superheroes, yes, but Ms. Rubenstein told her posse that an alpha kitty is a fearless, fashion-conscious woman, who pursues what she wants. What gal doesn't want to be in that club?One 15-year-old reader posted: "i am really glad that i am in the generation of teens that you chose to stick with because sometimes i don't know what i would do without you atoosa!!!"In short, Ms. Rubenstein's alpha-kitty philosophy is the electronic version of the girl-power gospel that Ms. Rubenstein's mentor, Helen Gurley Brown, advocated at Cosmopolitan.(The term "alpha kitty" itself was first bestowed on Ms. Rubenstein, as it happens, by Business Week, which used it as the headline for an article in February.)Even with thousands of alpha kitties at her metallic-green manicured toes, Ms. Rubenstein's first post-Hearst project is not likely to blow the glossy sheen off Seventeen.A second video series with a fashionista theme will go online later this fall. Fun! But what is the business plan?Ms. Rubenstein said she is not thinking about business, only "play." She said she is following her passions, experimenting with online media and meeting with artsy people with whom she hopes to collaborate (on what, she has yet to decide).But business is hardly on the back burner. She is seeking investors (although for now she is self-financed). A YouTube spokeswoman said Ms. Rubenstein is becoming a revenue-sharing partner with the Web site, so videos she posts will generate income for her and YouTube if she attracts advertisers.On her MySpace page, Ms. Rubinstein surveys her alpha kitties regularly, positioning herself to be an authority on young women and the Net. Her literary agent, Luke Janklow, is circulating a book proposal for "Alpha Kitty: I Made My Dreams Come True. Despite What The Haters Say, So Can You." Another agent at Creative Artists Agency is promoting Alpha Kitty television, retailing and other online projects.Can this old-media veteran make it in the virtual world, where so many others have stumbled?One thing going for her is that teenage girls are more socially active than boys online and are more likely than boys to participate in blogs, bulletin boards and chat forums, according to Packaged Facts, a division of MarketResearch.com. But the same study found that hard-copy magazines remain popular, despite online versions."Only a relatively small handful of teens consume online versions of traditional media," the study said.Debra Aho Williamson, a senior analyst for eMarketer, said, "I think teen magazines have had a long and only marginally successful online presence." Teen People, for one, tried to sustain a Web site after ceasing print publication, but ultimately gave up online, too.David Card, a senior analyst at Jupiter Research who studies online media, said it is possible Ms. Rubenstein could successfully take her readers into a digital world."I suspect she has a fan base that will follow her and at least give her a shot," he said.But he added that YouTube videos and spreading the alpha-kitty word through user-generated content will not be sufficient to create a media business. "Didn't we learn last bubble-bursting it's not just getting eyeballs?"Ms. Rubenstein keeps coming back to the intense bond she has with her audience."It's not something fake," she said. She wore an oversize asymmetrical shirt with the words "Only People Can Get Through to Other People" over black leggings, a tank top and platform heels so thick and pointy that ascenders of Everest could use them as ice picks."I was just a girl too when I first became an editor in chief. And we were in it together, myself and the audience."As she speaks, a diamond eternity band, a gift from Ms. Gurley Brown, twinkles on a pinkie.YOU may remember Sunrise Senior Living, the beleaguered provider of assisted-living facilities, whom we've visited in this column twice before. Well, under pressure from an investor, Sunrise has finally scheduled its annual shareholder meeting for Oct. 16 — about 17 months after its last gathering.Things have been going less than swimmingly at Sunrise since its shareholders last convened. It is in the midst of extensively restating earnings it booked from 2003 to 2005, and the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating its stock option grants and accounting practices. Sunrise also formed a special board committee, to review insider stock sales, after a big shareholder questioned transactions that occurred just before Sunrise announced a significant bookkeeping change.As if that wasn't enough, earlier this month, Bradley B. Rush, who was Sunrise's chief financial officer until he was fired in May, sued the company, contending that it had retaliated after he uncovered improper accounting practices and notified senior management, the board and the S.E.C.A Sunrise spokeswoman said that the suit has no merit and that the company would defend itself vigorously. And late Friday, the company announced that the special board committee and its outside law firm had concluded that there was no backdating or intentional misconduct in the company's option grants and that there was no evidence that the insiders who sold stock ahead of the accounting disclosures had material information that was not public.That's good news. But if Sunrise shareholders think they will be able to ask tough questions of management at the coming meeting, or register their displeasure by voting against directors whose terms are up, they have another think coming.The meeting will be conducted under rigid terms struck by Sunrise and a shareholder, the investment company Millenco. As a result, only three directors will stand for election — two incumbents and a representative of Millenco — and no other business issues will be allowed to come up.In a July settlement approved by a Delaware court, Sunrise and Millenco, a subsidiary of Millennium Partners, an investment company controlled by Israel A. Englander, agreed to hold the meeting on those terms. Millenco had sued Sunrise, seeking to compel it to hold an annual meeting within 13 months, as Sunrise's bylaws specify. In exchange for agreeing to settle the suit, Millenco received the right to nominate a new director at Sunrise.But other Sunrise shareholders are objecting to the restrictions on the meeting as stipulated by the agreement. The S.E.I.U. Master Trust, a pension fund that benefits members of the Service Employees International Union and owns Sunrise shares, is suing to open up the meeting to other business.The trust has tried to force change at the company on several recent occasions. In fact, it was the shareholder that pressed for the board to examine insider stock sales. This time around, the Master Trust is trying to stop Sunrise from using an agreement with one shareholder to disenfranchise others.The suit is based on the trust's view that the annual meeting, as structured, runs afoul of Sunrise's bylaws, which let shareholders nominate board candidates and bring up business at the annual meetings."An agreement was made apparently between another shareholder and the company as to how they are going to conduct the annual meeting, and that agreement deprives the rights of other shareholders who are not a party to it," said Michael J. Barry, a partner at Grant & Eisenhofer who represents the Master Trust. "What they did was agree to hold a pro forma meeting that would do nothing but rubber-stamp the election of incumbent Sunrise directors and a new director appointed by this shareholder."As companies go, Sunrise hasn't been exactly shareholder-friendly. Its founder and chief executive, Paul J. Klaassen, assembled a chummy board over the years. The company's outside directors either have had business dealings with the company or serve on other boards with Mr. Klaassen.The company has recently added two directors who it says are independent. And the deal between Sunrise and Millenco, of course, brings a new and independent director to the company's board. The proposed director is Lynn Krominga, a lawyer and a consultant to private equity firms, venture capital businesses and technology start-ups. She was suggested by Millenco, but she is not affiliated with the firm.For its part, Millenco said that although it would have preferred an open meeting, it was achieving its main goal through the settlement by placing an independent director on the Sunrise board. "We initiated the proceedings with a view to having a meeting, and we had an opportunity to settle the case with just about everything we wanted, namely a director who we were satisfied represents all the shareholders," said Simon M. Lorne, chief legal officer of Millennium Partners. But the terms under which that director ascends to her post are troubling, officials at the S.E.I.U. Master Trust said, because they seem to guarantee the re-election of the two incumbent directors — Mr. Klaassen and Craig R. Callen, an Aetna executive.Sunrise is in something of a bind because, until its financial restatement is completed and a proxy statement is filed, under S.E.C. rules it cannot call an annual meeting. But the court has ruled that the meeting can go forward.The Master Trust had hoped to ask Sunrise at the  meeting to conduct annual elections of directors. Sunrise has a staggered board, which helps to entrench its members because only a few directors stand for re-election each year. Given the restrictions in place for the meeting, the trust's efforts to end that setup are being stymied."We have repeatedly asked the company to address a number of corporate governance problems and remedy the conflicts of interest that infect their board, but they have refused," said Stephen Abrecht, executive director of benefits funds at the S.E.I.U. Master Trust.The trust hopes its lawsuit will persuade the court that the  terms of the meeting should be overturned. "That is what our litigation is about," Mr. Abrecht said. "Making the board and management accountable to shareholders."
