IN 2005, meal assembly shops were the hottest trend in small business, a concept taken on with gusto by mom-and-pop entrepreneurs. In storefront and shopping-center kitchens nationwide, they sold millions of uncooked entrees in freezer-ready Ziplocs and to-go tins, with stick-on instructions for boiling, simmering, baking or stir-frying the contents into quick dinners at home.The concept boomed, as the number of stores mushroomed from four in 2002 to  1,400 in 2007, almost exclusively by catering to women who wanted to provide home-cooked meals for their families, according to the Easy Meal Preparation Association.The customers placed their orders online days ahead, paid about $200 for 12 meals and donned store-supplied aprons to personally assemble each dish at the site one or two times a month. They adjusted the recipes to their families' tastes, maybe leaving the chopped onions out of the enchiladas. They often came with friends, sipped glasses of wine as they worked and treated the two-hour assembly sessions as guilt-free nights out.The loyalty of these wives and mothers landed meal assembly companies on various lists of top franchises and hot new businesses throughout 2005 and 2006.But growth in the industry has slowed sharply, long before reaching expectations. Industry revenue, which two years ago was forecast to reach $1 billion annually by 2010, is now projected around $650 million by then, said Bert Vermeulen, an industry consultant and founder of the easy meal association.Some 264 meal preparation stores closed during 2007, Mr. Vermeulen said, more than three times as many as in the previous year. He forecasts fewer than 50 openings in the United States this year, compared with 562 in 2006.It turns out that lots of people are simply not motivated to plan so many meals in advance. The desire for last-minute convenience remains powerful in America, often trumping the more ephemeral rewards of home cooking.Finding themselves ill prepared to offer such convenience in the context of a business model built on prescheduled two-hour sessions, meal assembly owners are trying to find new ways to bring ready-to-cook meals to the masses.The typical  customers "were women who enjoyed the time away from the kids — getting out, having a glass of wine — because they felt good about taking care of their families' meals," said Bill Byrd, chief executive of Super Suppers, the second-largest franchiser in the business. "What we found is that the market wasn't as big as we thought it was."Super Suppers, which is based in Fort Worth,  once forecast it would have 600 stores by the end of 2006; it now has about 200. Dream Dinners, based in Snohomish, Wash., originated the concept. It has 236 stores, not quite meeting expectations. No single competitor of Super Suppers and Dream Dinners has more than 70 stores.The majority of owners bring in less than $25,000 a month, or $300,000 a year, in revenue, according to Mr. Vermeulen's data. He figures that is about $5,000 a month short of what they need to stay out of financial trouble.Book It N Cook It, an independent store in the Tampa, Fla., suburb of Lutz, never exceeded $4,000 in monthly revenue in its eight-month life, said Terry Warner, its former owner. Monthly expenses averaged about $7,500. Mrs. Warner and her husband closed the store in November after losing about $250,000.The Warners, retired insurance adjusters who spent two years studying the industry before jumping in, say they underestimated the public's aversion to meal planning."People here have a grab-and-go mentality," Mrs. Warner said of Florida, where free time can be spent outdoors year-round. "The last thing anyone wants to do here is plan dinner." She said that the burger joint next door to her shop seemed to be doing great.Book It N Cook It did keep preassembled meals ready for walk-in customers, but Mrs. Warner said that attracting foot traffic was difficult.The industry is selling more  preassembled uncooked meals. In 2008, Mr. Vermeulen forecasts, store employees will assemble more meals than customers will for the first time. In 2004, customers in prebooked sessions assembled about 90 percent of all meals sold.Dinner by Design, the third-largest franchiser, expects to get out of the session business completely, said John Matthews, chief executive of the company, which is based in Grayslake, Ill.Dinner by Design renovated a store in Gurnee, Ill., to sell only preassembled uncooked entrees, side orders and desserts for pickup or delivery. Customers can phone in to pick up meals, order online or buy from the store's fridge.Mr. Matthews, who came to meal assembly after building sandwich and pizza franchise companies, hopes to copy the model throughout the chain."There's a huge market that is not going to book a session," he said, including his wife. "She wanted to know why we don't have drive-through windows."Deeelish (yes, three e's), based in Menlo Park, Calif., runs meal assembly sessions but is expanding mainly through delivery. For a $25 additional fee, the store will send frozen, uncooked meals by overnight delivery via FedEx to homes in several Western states.The FedEx program is  a small part of Deeelish's more than $1 million in annual revenue, said Jeff Stevens, a co-owner. But he expects corporate deliveries, in which office workers preorder meals to take home, will account for half of sales by the end of the year. Deeelish trucks fresh (not frozen) meals to commercial refrigerators it has installed in three office buildings so far.Not everyone thinks that preassembled meals will be the salvation. "We think a lot of the rush to change has been from lack of success with the core business," said Erik Ginsberg, referring to the sessions. Mr. Ginsberg is president of a Baltimore partnership that owns some of the highest revenue-generating stores in the business. "That hasn't been our experience."Average annual sales for all his nine stores —   called Let's Dish, although  independent of that franchise —  is about $1.3 million, Mr. Ginsberg said. About 85 percent of sales come from traditional session customers, a percentage he expects will shrink but remain the majority of business.Dream Dinners' stores rely solely on preordered meals, mainly assembled by session customers. Darin Leonard, the chief executive, argued that his competitors blundered in chasing the grab-and-go business, which he says turned their $200-a-month session customers into $50-a-month pickup customers.Despite moving  toward pickup sales, the  industry strives to set itself apart from fast food. Mr. Byrd of Super Suppers pointed out  that his meals were healthier than most takeout fare and cheaper than those in casual restaurants. That's true even if Mom had nothing to do with making them."Our inventory goes down the elevator every night," said Fairfax M. Cone, one of the pre-eminent advertising men of the last century. He was  describing his company's most important asset: its people.But what happens if those assets do not return in the morning?By 2020, some 16 percent of the  population in the United States will be 65 and over, up from 12 percent in 1999,  HR magazine writes.That argues for companies having a plan for replacing their employees  as they grow older. The magazine suggests this three-part approach:¶ First, determine which employees know or have vital information, the material that is "important to operating effectively over time."¶ Then, create methods to transfer that information to others. Clearly some things can be written down, but it can also occur through mentoring, phased retirements and arranging a consulting arrangement with the potential retiree.¶ Finally, make sure you hire replacements for those vital staff members.KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT 101 For a thorough review of what knowledge management is, check out the article by Antoinette Hylton  on eknowledgecenter.com, a professional development training company.A primary purpose of the article seems to be to persuade  knowledge management software companies to aim at  small companies. Ignore that. Pay attention to the way Ms. Hylton, a knowledge management consultant, defines the concept."Typically a knowledge management process involves: knowledge capture; knowledge organizing and knowledge storage; knowledge distribution; knowledge sharing," she writes. "Ultimately, successful knowledge management results in the best possible means to apply and leverage the knowledge that has been captured, organized and stored, distributed and shared. It means that very little of the company's highly valued intellectual capital has escaped the knowledge management net. Virtually all the knowledge within the enterprise is harnessed, and will be used as part of the company's core business and competitive intelligence strategy."You also may want to think about one of her conclusions. She writes that  few of the companies that  decide not to "place knowledge management high on their business agenda will live to tell the tale.""I AIN'T GOING" It isn't your imagination: "Advisers are beginning to notice more instances of three generations of family members working in a business," Family Business writes."The prospect of Mom or Dad being in charge for more than half a century may not bring comfort to sons and daughters eager to take the reins of a family business," Sharon Nelton writes. "Nevertheless, the reality is that people are living longer, healthier lives, and members of the senior generation who are full of vitality in their 60s, 70s and 80s may be reluctant to relinquish their hold on the family firm."The advice for the younger generation is  instead of asking "when are they finally going to retire," figure out how you can get to do what you want to do in the firm today, while still allowing your elders to do what they want.MANY HAPPY RETURNS Entrepreneurs tend not to retire well. As Leigh Buchanan writes  in the magazine Inc.,  "business owners may dream of kicking back, all the way back, after years of full-throttle company building. Yet many return to the fray, suffering adrenaline withdrawal and lured by new opportunities."Instead of fighting that idea, she asks, why not embrace it?"While planning retirement you should at least consider that it might be of limited duration," Ms. Buchanan writes. Use the first few months immediately after  your "retirement" to recharge, reconnect with family and friends, get in shape, and buy yourself something nice to celebrate all your hard work. Then, decide if retirement is right for you.LAST CALL It is interesting to note that Fairfax Cone, the man whose comment began the column, walked the talk. He retired from the firm he ran — Foote, Cone & Fielding — at age 63, two years before his company's mandatory retirement age. His reason was that it was simply  "a lot brighter to get the new people in there and get the company used to them now."IN 2005, meal assembly shops were the hottest trend in small business, a concept taken on with gusto by mom-and-pop entrepreneurs. In storefront and shopping-center kitchens nationwide, they sold millions of uncooked entrees in freezer-ready Ziplocs and to-go tins, with stick-on instructions for boiling, simmering, baking or stir-frying the contents into quick dinners at home.The concept boomed, as the number of stores mushroomed from four in 2002 to  1,400 in 2007, almost exclusively by catering to women who wanted to provide home-cooked meals for their families, according to the Easy Meal Preparation Association.The customers placed their orders online days ahead, paid about $200 for 12 meals and donned store-supplied aprons to personally assemble each dish at the site one or two times a month. They adjusted the recipes to their families' tastes, maybe leaving the chopped onions out of the enchiladas. They often came with friends, sipped glasses of wine as they worked and treated the two-hour assembly sessions as guilt-free nights out.The loyalty of these wives and mothers landed meal assembly companies on various lists of top franchises and hot new businesses throughout 2005 and 2006.But growth in the industry has slowed sharply, long before reaching expectations. Industry revenue, which two years ago was forecast to reach $1 billion annually by 2010, is now projected around $650 million by then, said Bert Vermeulen, an industry consultant and founder of the easy meal association.Some 264 meal preparation stores closed during 2007, Mr. Vermeulen said, more than three times as many as in the previous year. He forecasts fewer than 50 openings in the United States this year, compared with 562 in 2006.It turns out that lots of people are simply not motivated to plan so many meals in advance. The desire for last-minute convenience remains powerful in America, often trumping the more ephemeral rewards of home cooking.Finding themselves ill prepared to offer such convenience in the context of a business model built on prescheduled two-hour sessions, meal assembly owners are trying to find new ways to bring ready-to-cook meals to the masses.The typical  customers "were women who enjoyed the time away from the kids — getting out, having a glass of wine — because they felt good about taking care of their families' meals," said Bill Byrd, chief executive of Super Suppers, the second-largest franchiser in the business. "What we found is that the market wasn't as big as we thought it was."Super Suppers, which is based in Fort Worth,  once forecast it would have 600 stores by the end of 2006; it now has about 200. Dream Dinners, based in Snohomish, Wash., originated the concept. It has 236 stores, not quite meeting expectations. No single competitor of Super Suppers and Dream Dinners has more than 70 stores.The majority of owners bring in less than $25,000 a month, or $300,000 a year, in revenue, according to Mr. Vermeulen's data. He figures that is about $5,000 a month short of what they need to stay out of financial trouble.Book It N Cook It, an independent store in the Tampa, Fla., suburb of Lutz, never exceeded $4,000 in monthly revenue in its eight-month life, said Terry Warner, its former owner. Monthly expenses averaged about $7,500. Mrs. Warner and her husband closed the store in November after losing about $250,000.The Warners, retired insurance adjusters who spent two years studying the industry before jumping in, say they underestimated the public's aversion to meal planning."People here have a grab-and-go mentality," Mrs. Warner said of Florida, where free time can be spent outdoors year-round. "The last thing anyone wants to do here is plan dinner." She said that the burger joint next door to her shop seemed to be doing great.Book It N Cook It did keep preassembled meals ready for walk-in customers, but Mrs. Warner said that attracting foot traffic was difficult.The industry is selling more  preassembled uncooked meals. In 2008, Mr. Vermeulen forecasts, store employees will assemble more meals than customers will for the first time. In 2004, customers in prebooked sessions assembled about 90 percent of all meals sold.Dinner by Design, the third-largest franchiser, expects to get out of the session business completely, said John Matthews, chief executive of the company, which is based in Grayslake, Ill.Dinner by Design renovated a store in Gurnee, Ill., to sell only preassembled uncooked entrees, side orders and desserts for pickup or delivery. Customers can phone in to pick up meals, order online or buy from the store's fridge.Mr. Matthews, who came to meal assembly after building sandwich and pizza franchise companies, hopes to copy the model throughout the chain."There's a huge market that is not going to book a session," he said, including his wife. "She wanted to know why we don't have drive-through windows."Deeelish (yes, three e's), based in Menlo Park, Calif., runs meal assembly sessions but is expanding mainly through delivery. For a $25 additional fee, the store will send frozen, uncooked meals by overnight delivery via FedEx to homes in several Western states.The FedEx program is  a small part of Deeelish's more than $1 million in annual revenue, said Jeff Stevens, a co-owner. But he expects corporate deliveries, in which office workers preorder meals to take home, will account for half of sales by the end of the year. Deeelish trucks fresh (not frozen) meals to commercial refrigerators it has installed in three office buildings so far.Not everyone thinks that preassembled meals will be the salvation. "We think a lot of the rush to change has been from lack of success with the core business," said Erik Ginsberg, referring to the sessions. Mr. Ginsberg is president of a Baltimore partnership that owns some of the highest revenue-generating stores in the business. "That hasn't been our experience."Average annual sales for all his nine stores —   called Let's Dish, although  independent of that franchise —  is about $1.3 million, Mr. Ginsberg said. About 85 percent of sales come from traditional session customers, a percentage he expects will shrink but remain the majority of business.Dream Dinners' stores rely solely on preordered meals, mainly assembled by session customers. Darin Leonard, the chief executive, argued that his competitors blundered in chasing the grab-and-go business, which he says turned their $200-a-month session customers into $50-a-month pickup customers.Despite moving  toward pickup sales, the  industry strives to set itself apart from fast food. Mr. Byrd of Super Suppers pointed out  that his meals were healthier than most takeout fare and cheaper than those in casual restaurants. That's true even if Mom had nothing to do with making them.WASHINGTON  —  The House Small Business Committee has asked for an investigation into how a newly retired Bush administration appointee with no experience in helping small businesses compete for government contracts received money from the Small Business Administration to do exactly that.The $1.2 million contract — 90 percent of the agency's budget to provide advice and training to small disadvantaged businesses or businesses operating in high unemployment areas  —  went to   the VBP Group, a company based in Paradise Valley, Ariz.The company's owner, Vernon B. Parker, served as assistant secretary for civil rights in the Agriculture Department from April 2003 to January 2006. The post was created by Congress to help address the department's historic discrimination against black farmers. A month after Mr. Parker, a former church pastor who is also a lawyer and a civil rights consultant, left the Agriculture Department, he founded the VBP Group.Certification by the S.B.A. to run one of its programs typically takes two years, unless the owner has prior experience in the area and receives a waiver. The VBP Group  was four months old when it was certified.Steven C. Preston, the S.B.A.'s administrator, was questioned about the contract award to Mr. Parker at a hearing of the House Small Business Committee on Feb. 7.The next day, Mr. Preston reported that he had asked the agency's inspector general, Eric Thorson, to look into the matter. "Based in the information provided by your staff, and some research conducted by my staff, I believe there is sufficient cause for concern over the events surrounding this contractor," Mr. Preston wrote  to Nydia Velázquez, Democrat of  New York and chairwoman of the committee.Ms. Velázquez said in an e-mail message on Friday that the S.B.A. has long argued that it has had to cut programs because "the agency just didn't have the funds."She added: "It seems they only have money for Republican cronies."Mr. Parker, 48, said, in a telephone interview on Friday, that he had legitimately obtained the S.B.A. contract after winning a waiver to become a qualified training provider in June 2006. In addition to serving at the Agriculture Department, Mr. Parker said he had worked at the federal Office of Personnel Management, becoming its general counsel in the early 1990s, according to his official biography."My role is to teach businesses about civil rights issues and how the government views civil rights," he said.Mr. Parker, who said in a second phone call that he had been contacted by the inspector general's office, said he was working with  James E. Selmon III on the program.  Mr. Selmon was associate administrator for the Agriculture Department's Rural Housing Service for two years, starting in 2002.Mr. Selmon, 37, said he had been conducting workshops in every state, "We instruct them on how to get government contracts," Mr. Selmon said, by telephone from Houston, where he lives. "It's everything from cost and pricing to administrative procedures and taxes."Mr. Selmon said he was  formerly employed by a Houston computer business and  had worked for Unlimited Services Systems Management and Consultants, a firm based in Largo, Md., which provided  S.B.A. training for three years, 2004 through 2006.Brenda Campbell, who owns Unlimited Services Systems Management,  said she had won a fourth year of the training contract but that it had been rescinded without explanation.The S.B.A., citing the inspector general's investigation, said it could not comment on Ms. Campbell's assertion  or provide access to the contracting officials involved. The inspector general's office said it would not comment.Congressional Democrats and small business groups have long argued for the importance of the training program, which is the only government-financed program that teaches owners of small businesses about the complex procedures and language involved in applying for government contracts. Those contracts are often crucial to the financial well-being of small businesses, particularly minority- and female-owned businesses. Groups like  the National Small Business Association say such training is vital, especially in a declining economy."What we hear is that the reason more of our members don't participate in government contracts is because it's so confusing," said Molly Brogan, the association's spokeswoman. "The program helps them figure out what the lingo means and what they need to do."The administration has asked for $1.5 million for the program for the coming fiscal year, which begins in October. Members of the small business committee have urged that the budget be increased to $2 million or more.As recently as 2001, the program awarded $3.2 million to a dozen groups, including well-known names like the Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth.Ms. Velázquez  and the committee's ranking Republican, Steve Chabot of Ohio, have pledged to look "into the use of funds to ensure the program has qualified business advisers."SANDRA BOYNTON'S studio, in a converted barn next to her Connecticut home, bears the milestones of her singular career: a long rack of greeting cards featuring quirkily drawn animals; a room full of small, sturdy children's books, with names like "Snuggle Puppy!" and "Barnyard Dance!";  and, upstairs, where she does much of her work, old-time radios and jukeboxes representing her more recent foray into music CDs for children.Ms. Boynton's CDs have garnered three gold records and one Grammy nomination. These accomplishments, on top of the hundreds of millions of cards and tens of millions of books she has sold, are all the happy — and profitable — results of an unconventional approach to business.As an entrepreneur, Ms. Boynton maintains a firm grasp on market realities and her finances, but she says she has succeeded by refusing to make money her main objective. Instead, she says, she has focused on the creative process, her artistic autonomy, her relationships and how she uses her time."I don't do things differently to be different; I do what works for me," she says. "To me, the commodity that we consistently overvalue is money, and what we undervalue is our precious and irreplaceable time. Though, of course, to the extent that money can save you time or make it easier to accomplish things, it's a wonderful thing."While Ms. Boynton may make all of this sound relatively straightforward, she has overcome hurdles in three industries that have routinely tripped up or roundly laid low legions of would-be entrepreneurs.MS. BOYNTON, 54, describes what she calls an "absurdly happy childhood"  in Philadelphia. The third of four daughters, she attended Germantown Friends, a K-12 Quaker school famed for its arts education and interdisciplinary teaching. Her father, Robert Boynton, was an English teacher at the school.  "The best English teacher I ever had," she says.She was fascinated by business at an early age and remembers selling pretty yellow flowers door to door for a dime when she was 8. Later, she discovered that they were weeds, but she still had takers. "I always liked selling things," she says. "It gives you a sense of self-sufficiency."When Ms. Boynton was 14, a local newspaper printed drawings from an exhibit of her school artwork. She used the $40 she earned from her first published work to invest in two shares of AT&T  — though she mistakenly thought she was buying shares of I.B.M. She still has the stock but has no clue how much it is worth.Stocks held a special glamour for her: Her grandfather worked at a silver company, rising from the mailroom to the vice president's perch. "Family legend has it that the company offered penny-a-share stock to employees, and he bought as much as he could afford," she says. "And he became a wealthy man. That stock eventually put most of his 17 grandchildren through college."In addition to her investing activity, she developed a strong interest in art, music, literature and writing  — all of which were central to the Friends curriculum. The school was so stimulating, academically and artistically, she says, that her first year at Yale was a disappointment.At Yale, she majored in English, became involved in drama courses and productions and met her future husband, Jamie McEwan, in an acting class. She also worked on her drawing. Ever the entrepreneur, she started illustrating gift enclosure cards that were precursors of her animal-populated greeting cards.In 1974, Ms. Boynton met Phil Friedmann, a partner in Recycled Paper Greetings, a greeting card company based in Chicago, at a stationery trade show. After Mr. Friedmann and his business partner, Mike Keiser, saw Ms. Boynton's work, they asked her to start making cards for their company.They wanted to pay her a flat rate. Though she was only 21 and unknown, Ms. Boynton, who had learned a lesson or two from her father's other careers as a writer and publisher, demanded royalties."We quickly relented," Mr. Keiser recalls of the royalty negotiations. It was a shrewd move on his part, too. He says that over about a decade  — from the mid-1970s to the mid-1980s —  revenue at Recycled Paper went from $1 million to $100 million, largely because of the popularity of Boynton cards.  Ms. Boynton has made 4,000 different cards for Recycled Paper, including the still popular "Hippo Birdies 2 Ewes" birthday card.By Mr. Keiser's rough estimate, Ms. Boynton has sold around a half-billion cards, which, he says,  makes her one of the best-selling card creators of all time.Her cards have become such a part of the mainstream that it is easy to forget how radical they were when they were introduced. Dominated by powerhouses like Hallmark and American Greetings, the card industry in the 1970s relied on flowery, color-saturated art and equally flowery prose, written in flourishes and curlicues.Ms. Boynton's cards, on the other hand, were populated with cats, cows, hippos, ducks, sheep, dragons and various other beasts, humanized through the placement of a dot for a pupil, or a single, expressive arc for an eyelid or mouth. She was also among the first greeting card artists to use white backgrounds.Her cards were thoughtful, wry and whimsical. While the sentiments may have been unconventional, they resonated with the public."Things are getting worse," said one card that featured a bewildered hippo. On the inside it said "please send chocolate."Whimsy, it turns out, had been undervalued. And the big card companies eventually took some of their artistic cues from her."It's a lot easier to start in this business today than it was when Sandra Boynton got started," Patti Stracher, manager of the National Stationery Show,  the country's biggest annual greeting card showcase. "She fueled a trend in what were then called alternative greeting cards. Alternative cards helped people communicate about topics that were really hard to address or that you could poke fun at."AFTER the cards came the books. Continuing with the chocolate theme, in 1982 Ms. Boynton published a general market  book titled "Chocolate: the Consuming Passion" that became a best seller.  Its publisher, the Workman Publishing Company, went on to print some of her children's board books — small books with thick, boardlike pages, with 5 to 10 rhythmic words per page.The books feature some of the same furry and feathery characters that her cards do, presenting a world that her editor of 27 years, Suzanne Rafer, calls "safe, unexpected and pleasurable" for children.The most popular board book by Workman, "Barnyard Dance!" ("Bow to the horse. Bow to the cow. Twirl with the pig if you know how.") was published in 1993 and has 2.3 million copies in print.Wendy Rhein of Atlanta has been reading Ms. Boynton's books to her son, Nathan, 2  1/2, since he was born. "The drawings are entertaining," she said, "and there's a lyricism and rhyming that goes on that's very singsong, and they're fun for me to read to him."Succeeding in the children's book market is hard and becoming more so, said Michael K. Norris, senior analyst at Simba Information, a market research firm. Technology is luring children away from books, and only a small percentage of children's books wind up on families' shelves."The market favors authors who have built up their brands over time," Mr. Norris says. He says she also has an edge because "she knows exactly who her audience is and knows how to reach them."FROM books, Ms. Boynton decided to extend her rhythmic sensibility into song. She says she was helped along by "dumb luck."When she was working on the album "Philadelphia Chickens" in 2001, for instance, she told Mike Ford, her songwriting partner, that Meryl Streep (a fellow Yale alumna and a friend) was the only person who could do justice to the song "Nobody Understands Me."The very next day, Ms. Streep happened to stop by her studio. She recorded the song and then suggested that the actor Kevin Kline might want to record one, too. He sang "Busybusybusy." Another friend of Ms. Boynton's, Laura Linney, sang for the album, and Ms. Linney helped arrange for Eric Stoltz to put in an appearance.Buoyed by her Hollywood supporters, Ms. Boynton approached some of the biggest names in the music industry — including Alison Krauss, Blues Traveler and the Spin Doctors — to contribute to her next album, "Dog Train." From there, she was able to persuade some of her music idols — including Neil Sedaka, B. B. King, Steve Lawrence and Davy Jones — to sing on her most recent effort, called "Blue Moo: 17 Jukebox Hits From Way Back Never."It was lucky, Ms. Boynton says, that many  managers of the big musical acts were men in their 30s who had young children who loved her books. And there was another stroke of luck: she decided to use her longtime publisher, Workman, to package her CDs inside of books instead of selling them in music stores. In  retrospect, that alternative form of distribution was a stroke of genius, because it came just as the music business seemed to be imploding.Ms. Boynton's studio is not far from the farmhouse that she and her husband, Mr. McEwan — also a children's book author — bought 28 years ago. In addition to creating greeting cards and children's books, the couple also raised four children there, now ages 18 to 28.The studio and her five-bedroom home, built in 1728, sit on 100 acres of rolling northwestern Connecticut countryside — evidence of a life that is comfortable, but not lavish.When she is working on her music, Ms. Boynton drives five miles across winding rural roads to Mr. Ford, her songwriting partner, who also works out of a studio next to his house. The two sit side by side in leather chairs in front of an electronic keyboard and a computer loaded with music software, working to find the right sounds for her lyrics.One three-minute song, from writing to final recording, can take a month to complete. She and Mr. Ford put in 14-hour days when they are in the thick of a project. "You have to enjoy the process of making it happen," she says.BECAUSE she has made so much money from her cards and books, Ms. Boynton says, she doesn't need to rely on her CD business for income. Although the CDs make money for her publisher, she says they don't make money for her. Essentially, she views them as "loss leaders" — products that are valuable not because they are profitable but because they help her maintain contact with her audience.That philosophy helped persuade the  blues singer B. B. King to record "One Shoe Blues" on her most recent CD. The song is a soulful lament that captures a toddler's anguish about not being able to find a missing shoe when Mama is ready to go."At the level of detail I think is necessary to make them what they are, they simply can't pay for themselves," Ms. Boynton says of the CDs. "In purely business terms, it's an irrational enterprise. And it's also the best work I do."Ms. Boynton doesn't have an agent. She has just one employee: her assistant, Kathleen Sherrill. There is no Inc. or LLC after her name. She prefers to be an unincorporated business with an orbit of "licensees," for lack of a better word, around her.Whenever she has made products like stuffed animals, mugs, jewelry, sheets or towels, she has maintained control over the finished product so it doesn't stray from her vision  —  or saturate the market."Theoretically, I could choose to trade artistic autonomy and pride in my work for increased income — say, by broadly licensing my characters to be used for television," she says. But that would be foolish, she says."I love what I do, I love the people I work with, I care very much about the value of the work I create, and I don't need more money than I have. This is not revolutionary philosophy. It's just common sense."ALBERT BENNETT has lived for 52 years on the same block of Morton Street between Hudson and Bedford Streets, and like a lot of residents of Greenwich Village, he has a clear mental map of the area, both as it is and as it used to be.Take laundries. There is the Laundromat on Carmine Street, a couple of blocks away, where Mr. Bennett, who is 82, gets his dress shirts cleaned. And his main drop-off laundry, on Bedford, in the same building as a dry cleaner that recently closed. And the Laundromat nearby that closed years ago, eventually to be replaced by a Subway sandwich shop, which itself eventually closed, leaving a vacant storefront."Even they couldn't make it," said Mr. Bennett, a member of the Landmarks Committee of Community Board 2, the local board.He chuckled ruefully at the ever escalating rents that have made life near the business districts of the Village a study in turnover. And he knows what might happen if his local laundry followed the dry cleaner into extinction: He would walk an extra block and a half to take everything to the place on Carmine, and life would be just a little less convenient.These days, you see fewer people carrying laundry bags on the sidewalk anyway, in part because town houses, like the one in which Mr. Bennett has an apartment, are being converted into large single-family houses. People who live in these town houses, and in the new luxury buildings sprouting around the city, tend to have access to their own washers and dryers."Lucky people, yes," Mr. Bennett said. "But if you live in an old brownstone like I do, it's very unlikely."For people like Mr. Bennett who don't have their own machines, especially those who don't want to pay for drop-off wash-and-fold service, or just believe that if you want a job done right, you have to do it yourself, times are not so good. People are not exactly holding protests over the issue, but places to do a load of wash in Jane Jacobs's old neighborhood are ever fewer in number.Brian Wallace, president of the Coin Laundry Association, a national trade organization, confirms this trend: Equipment dealers, business owners and brokers all tell him that fewer Laundromats are to be found in the Village, and in Manhattan's pricey neighborhoods in general. The culprit, unsurprisingly, is higher rent. In the city, retail rents in the hundreds of dollars per square foot are the norm, Mr. Wallace said, whereas the average laundry nationwide pays about $16 a square foot.Local laundry owners can't do much to keep up."It's as if Starbucks was only able to charge 69 cents for a cup of coffee," Mr. Wallace said. "People are accustomed to paying only a couple of dollars a load to do laundry, but some of the rents that are out there would require people to charge a lot more than customers are used to paying."According to Mr. Wallace, this has led to construction outside Manhattan of mega-Laundromats in spaces as large as 7,000 square feet. In Manhattan, meanwhile, a growing number of laundries are moving toward wash-and-fold service, for which they can charge more money. Sixty-five percent of laundries nationwide now offer that service, he said, and busy people find it worth the price."Whether it's quick oil changes or fast food or buying groceries over the Internet, these are all things that people used to do for themselves," Mr. Wallace said. "But consumers are making a conscious decision to trade money for time."The problem of the disappearing Laundromat is compounded by the fact that it's a tricky issue to address.When residents want to preserve a building, points out Andrew Berman, executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation, there is a process to go through, an application to a city agency to have the building designated a landmark. But with a neighborhood business, and an unglamorous one at that, no such mechanism exists. In other words, you can designate a structure as a landmark, but not a use."It's a little frustrating," Mr. Berman said, "not knowing how to fight it, even if you want to."Yet even people who are not regular customers of Laundromats notice their absence."It's the businesses that make a neighborhood a neighborhood that are closing," said Greg Jackson, president of Mr. Bennett's block association. "We don't need any boutiques or fancy bakeries or little cellphone stores. We just don't need them."Wendy Maceira, who lived in Greenwich Village before leaving the city in 2002, noticed the difference when she returned last year, to an apartment on Charles Street. Ms. Maceira and her fiancé used to take their clothes to the Suds Cafe, on West 10th Street, but it closed late last year. Later, in search of a place open late, they wound up across town, on Avenue B.Once, returning drowsily from an upstate ski trip, the couple took advantage of their rental car to go late-night Laundromat hunting. "We were looking up the words '24-hour Laundromat' at midnight and we were driving around in our rental car," Ms. Maceira said. "It sounds so pathetic."Convenience is not the only reason people mourn the disappearance of local Laundromats."You meet a lot of people in your neighborhood in these places," Ms. Maceira said. "These things help your neighborhood in ways that you can't immediately see."And she says that the Village was once a more sociable place. "It doesn't feel like the New York it should be," she said. "And then you can't even wash your clothes."
