MOSCOW  —  At a venture capital conference in Silicon Valley, Oleg S. Shvartsman mixed easily among the titans of private equity."He didn't stand out from the crowd," said Evgeny Zaytsev, the organizer of the conference on Nov. 9.That is, until he acknowledged in a newspaper interview that the $3.6 billion group of equity funds he manages serves investors "close to the top of the F.S.B. and S.V.R.," the domestic and overseas espionage agencies of the Russian government.Russians and outsiders have long suspected that the Federal Security Service, or F.S.B. by its Russian initials, successor to the K.G.B., has had a hand in Russian business. But Mr. Shvartsman's statement, the boldest such assertion yet, has  generated debate over the appropriate corporate role for spies and ex-spies.Highly educated and well connected, former Federal Security Service officers include among their number Russia's  president, Vladimir V. Putin. And Mr. Putin has seeded former colleagues throughout government and appointed them to boards of state-run corporations.For big Western companies, the prevalence of former Federal Security Service agents in Russian business is raising questions of ethics and due diligence, as a growing number  — including Boeing, Exxon Mobil and Renault — have business transactions with Russian companies linked to former spies or members of the political police.Boeing and Exxon declined to comment on their companies' due-diligence criteria for deals with former K.G.B. officials. A spokeswoman for Renault said her company was "not concerned" with the matter."We look at AvtoVaz as an interesting partner," the spokeswoman, Olga S. Sergeyeva, said, referring to Russia's largest carmaker, "so we work with the people who manage the factory.  That person is Chemezov." Sergei V. Chemezov, chairman of the state-run Russian Technology, is a former K.G.B. agent who served with Mr. Putin in the east German city of Dresden in the 1980s."Very creepy" was how one European manager of an equity fund invested in Russia described his dealings with the leadership of a company run by former security service officers. He did not want to be identified making the assessment because he wants to do business with the companies.There is nothing illegal about such dealings, and Russia is an attractive emerging market. The country has drawn $45 billion in Western capital so far this year. And as Mr. Shvartsman's foray into Silicon Valley, presumably in search of  investment opportunities for his funds, showed, Russians are also stepping up their investment abroad of tens of billions of dollars, part of the country's windfall from high oil prices.It could also be argued that the role former members of the intelligence services play in business here is similar to the outsize role the Chinese Army plays in businesses there.Currently serving security service employees are prohibited from working outside the service, according to Gennadi V. Gudkov, a member of parliament and a former K.G.B. agent.Only, according to an old Russian axiom, no one ever leaves the service. Mr. Putin himself said in his 2000 presidential campaign, using a post-1917 revolution name for K.G.B. precursors,  that "there is no such thing as a former  Chekist."In the interview published in the newspaper Kommersant, Mr. Shvartsman described other fund investors as "not the leadership of the presidential administration, but members of their families." And he boasted that his ties to the secret police helped his company, the FinansGroup, buy businesses in Russia at knock-down prices because business owners, he said, "know where we come from."Mr. Shvartsman suggested that he had F.S.B. backing for corporate raiding, a term that is often more than just a figure of speech in Russia's bare-knuckle business world.The assertions sent ripples through business circles here, though the Kremlin spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, dismissed Mr. Shvartsman's statements as "absolutely untrue."Still, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and a leading Israeli bank, Tamir Fishman, pulled out of a deal with Mr. Shvartsman to create the Tamir Fishman Russia Venture Capital Fund.Just last week, Renault signed a memorandum of understanding to buy 25 percent of AvtoVaz,  and manage it in partnership with Mr. Chemezov's Russian Technology.To be sure, intelligence agency officials have become businessmen in other countries, too. The first President Bush was director of central intelligence in the 1970s and, more recently, a senior adviser to the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm, until 2004. And some Western businessmen here say that the K.G.B., with its language training and networking opportunities for the young and ambitious, is a good school for international business.Aleksandr Y. Lebedev, a Russian airline tycoon whose estimated worth is $3.5 billion, was a K.G.B. agent in London in the late 1980s.In an interview, Mr. Lebedev said that seeing the great gap in economic development between the West and the Soviet Union in the 1980s made reformers of some in his generation of Soviet spies. Thus, the characterization of the K.G.B. as an inherently reactive force is a misperception, he said, and it should not be surprising that former agents became free-market enthusiasts. Last month, the Russian edition of Smart Money magazine published a cover article proclaiming, "The K.G.B. Is better Than an M.B.A."In Russia, there may be some logic to that reasoning. Boeing is buying titanium for its new 787 Dreamliner jet from a company run by Mr. Chemezov. Exxon Mobil is a partner in a Sakhalin Island oil development with Rosneft, a huge Russian energy company whose chairman, Igor I. Sechin, is a former intelligence officer. Mr. Sechin is also Mr. Putin's deputy chief of staff.One son of the Federal Security Service director, Nikolai Patrushev,  worked at the state foreign trade bank, the VTB Group, and another worked at Rosneft.Sergei B. Ivanov, a first deputy prime minister and former K.G.B. agent who served in London, is chairman of the state aircraft-making monopoly. His son was vice president of Gazprombank, the banking arm of the Russian natural gas monopoly."Due diligence has become something of a headache sorting this all out," a Western business consultant, who did not want to be further identified criticizing the Kremlin, said.And Yevgenia M. Albats, author of a 1994 book on the K.G.B., "The State Within a State," said, "The F.S.B. is no longer just a police organization, it is a business."In exchange for loyalty, Mr. Putin has allowed top F.S.B. officials to tap business opportunities in Russia's oil-boom economy by acquiring stakes in companies in oil, telecommunications, retailing and finance."The problem is, this business has the power of violence," Ms. Albats said. "It has troops and intelligence equipment."Whether the security service will retain its power remains to be seen. Last week, Mr. Putin endorsed Dmitri A. Medvedev, the other first deputy prime minister, to be Russia's next president, a step that most here assume makes Mr. Medvedev's choice a certainty. Mr. Medvedev has no known background in the security services.After the publication of his interview, Mr. Shvartsman asserted that the Kommersant journalist, Maksim Kvasha, had used "literary license" in transcribing his statement, though he did not  take back any of the specifics. In an interview on Echo of Moscow radio, he said the journalist should "drink poison."Claudia Payne, special sections editor, is answering reader questions Dec. 18-21. Questions may be e-mailed to askthetimes@nytimes.com.Ms. Payne supervises 20 special sections a year, including the annual Giving, Museums and Cars sections, as well as sections on small business, business travel, retirement, technology, sustainability, health and personal finance. She came to The Times from The Wall Street Journal in 1979 and has worked as a business editor in New York and in Washington, as a style and fashion editor, as deputy editor of The New York Times Magazine, and as an enterprise, investigations and news editor. She has been editor of special sections since 2004.Several other editors have answered questions in this column, including Executive Editor Bill Keller, Obituaries Editor Bill McDonald, Assistant Managing Editor Glenn Kramon, Director of Copy Desks Merrill Perlman, Metropolitan Editor Joe Sexton, Living Editor Trish Hall, Investigations Editor Matthew Purdy, National Editor Suzanne Daley, Digital News Editor Jim Roberts, Culture Editor Sam Sifton and Associate Managing Editor Charles Strum. Their responses and those of other Times editors are on the Talk to the Newsroom page.These discussions will continue in future weeks with other Times editors.Circuits and the HolidaysQ. Is the special pre-holiday Circuits section always published on the first Wednesday of December (or another predictable day)? — Philip FassA. You got it!  It comes out the first week of December. With electronics the new go-to gift for the shopping-challenged, we see the section as a chance to make us all smarter about what we might buy or put on our wish lists. Not everybody will want to know about the Defense Department's weapons guidance program when contemplating buying a Global Positioning System device, but we think we should demystify all these shiny objects of desire. And it gives our most tech-savvy reporters a chance to play with cool new stuff.A Section for Crafters?Q. I'm wondering if you ever thought of doing a Crafts special section? I am a knitter and I think there are a lot "crafters" out there who would go wild for it. I'm sure you could get advertisers like knitting stores, Michael's,even the kmarts of the world to support it. Just a thought. — Hilary SnellA. Hilary, that's a welcome idea. In fact, we are constantly trying to think up topics that will engage readers, and advertisers, and that are not covered elsewhere in the paper. For the coming year, we have added a new section on personal finance. While not exactly a craft, this certainly is becoming more of a hands-on pursuit for many of us  —  who could probably learn a thing or two about keeping track from knitters like you.Keeping It FreshQ. How do you keep your sections from repeating what is in the rest of the newspaper? The paper has an Autos section every week, so how do you find new things for Cars. And there is Circuits news in the paper every week. So how do you keep the holiday Circuits from being repetitive? — Molly MullenA. That's a great question, Molly. It sounds like you might have some experience in our business.We do a lot of coordinating with other editors and we rely on many of the same contributors. That gives us a buffer against repetition, which you are right to assume that we abhor.Inevitably, we touch on topics that have been addressed in our weekly coverage, but with a different purpose. Our sections are built around themes, for one thing, which keep our articles distinctive.And no one is shy here about pointing out, even late in the editing process, a duplicative article. In which case, to use an old newsroom term, we spike it.The Role of AdvertisingQ. To what extent are special sections constrained by advertising sales? Are reporters told to expand or cut back on coverage according to the amount of advertising that has been sold for a particular section? Would stories ever be held from a special section due to an advertiser's objections, or do special sections follow the same standards as the rest of the paper in terms of keeping all editorial and advertising decisions separated? — Matthew Stoff, Nacogdoches, Tex.A. I was hoping for that question.The answer is  — and you put it very well  — the sections follow the same standards as the rest of the newspaper in keeping advertising and editorial decisions separate.But your query deserves more insight into how we work.So, we share general ideas with our colleagues who sell advertising, but not specifics, like names of companies or of reporters. We do not use our sections to publish exposés about, say, fraud at a particular corporation or institution. (That type of article would command a place in the daily newspaper.) But we would have no hesitation about taking on the topic to provide analysis or guidance.Advertising does, of course, determine the number of pages in a section. But the judgments about content are made exclusively by the news department.What We Do and Don't DoQ. Are special sections subject to the same standards as the rest of the newspaper?  How does that interface work?  For example, would Craig Whitney get involved in what you do?Speaking of that, where does T fit in terms of special sections?  — Judith FeinleibQ. Is it accurate to describe special sections as vehicles to stimulate specialized and lucrative advertising? — Mark GrossmanQ. Many newspapers across the country run stories in the auto sections that are obviously advertisements posing as news. You can usually spot one because it includes photos of a car without any critical information, such as price, possible faults of the car, gas mileage, safety rating or other pertinent information buyers need, but sellers may want to hide.What do you think of this trend and how do you keep those fake stories out of The New York Times? — Joshua B. GoodA.  These questions really get to the gist of what we do, and don't do.Yes, Judith, the sections are subject to the same standards as the newspaper, and as part of our normal editing procedures we often turn to Mr. Whitney for guidance. (The glamorous T magazines are  managed as a  separate department.)As for advertising, Mark, if there were no advertising at all to support a particular Special Section, we would probably discontinue publishing it. When we develop new sections it is because we sense growth, change and opportunity in a topic. If we guess right, we stimulate new journalism and the advertising department can stimulate new advertising.And Joshua, to keep "fake" articles out of our sections, we wield the same diagnostic tools as the rest of the paper does: tried, tested and trusted reporters and editors.What Deserves 'Special' Treatment?Q. Writing to ask if you would explain further how you determine what subject areas (i.e., investigations, hobbies, government) are worthy of treatment in a special section?  — Eugene MuleroA. It's a very deliberative process,  Eugene, and one that I'm glad to have a chance to explain.First, we look for change, which drives most decisions about how newspapers cover information. Then, specifically, we look for topics that have a constituency among readers and that are not covered regularly elsewhere in the newspaper.I'll give you an example. We added our sustainability section, The Business of Green, because we saw increasing numbers of companies developing strategies to deal with the environment and climate change. Packaging articles about what different industries were doing in a separate section highlighted the trend in a way that went beyond what the daily business pages could convey. And we kept the coverage focused on business strategies, rather than on consumer behavior or scientific findings, which we thought were well covered in our regular news pages and features sections.We used similar calculations when we added our sections on Business Travel and Tech Innovation. And we are constantly scanning for new opportunities.So now, when you see an unfamiliar special section in your newspaper, you'll have some idea of how  it got there.Advice for an Aspiring Journalist?Q. Thanks so much for taking the time to answer questions. I am an almost-graduate at San Francisco State and have been studying journalism and creating writing through school and various internships. What is your advice to young writers about working their way up the editorial scale from writer to editor? What can I be doing to further my career aspirations of being a big editor like you someday?  — Ashley NelsonA. Ashley, I'm afraid my career track was very last-century.I've been a print journalist my entire working life. I was an editorial assistant in my early 20's, started my newspaper career on the night-side copy desk of a good regional paper, The Raleigh News & Observer. Copy editing proved to be a useful ticket into the majors, The Wall Street Journal and The Times. Then it was mainly a matter of learning the culture of the institution, figuring out my own strengths, and weaknesses, and getting the point across to supervisors.But today's, and certainly tomorrow's, editors must be equipped to deal with multiplatform journalism, however it evolves. So hone your skills in as many facets of media as you can. Collect as much experience, and as many bylines as you can, and pay attention to what's going on in the news businesses and in the world around you. And one more thing: don't be shy.I wish you a wonderful career in the brave new world of journalism.The Time FrameQ. What's the time frame from the time you decide on a topic/publication to the time it's published? Do you have a yearly calendar of special sections? Can you add one when you feel a topic needs covering? — Jodee TaylorA. That's a very important question, Jodee, that goes straight to the point of how nimble we can be in managing a set roster of sections.We do have an annual calendar, prepared in autumn for the following year. And that allows us, as editors, to conceive and assign ambitious articles that take time to report and construct. We start doing this months in advance. This works for us and it works for reporters, who can develop these enterprising projects without compromising their daily beat coverage.However, we are newspaper people, and will turn on a dime if an assignment doesn't pan out, is overtaken by news events, or just if something fresher and more exciting drives up.And we've pushed added sections into our lineup with just a few weeks between a gleam in the eye to the day of publication.It's a juggling act that may make for some tense moments, but it lets us deliver our best work to readers.
