WHEN we look for ways to improve our life at work, how we can make better decisions, for example, or try to figure out the next step in our career, invariably one  thing we do is look at what great leaders have done. This is why books like "Straight From the Gut," by John F. Welch Jr., and those by Lee A. Iacocca sell so well.But focusing on what a successful leader does is a mistake, according to Roger Martin, dean of the University of Toronto Business School."That's because moves that work in one context often make little sense in the same company or within the experience of a single leader," he writes in The Harvard Business Review.Mr. Martin contends that the more beneficial thing to do is study how great leaders think.He has, and he has concluded that they process information differently than the rest of us do."They have the predisposition and the capacity to hold in their head two opposing ideas at once," he writes. "And then, without panicking or simply settling for one alternative or the other, they're able to creatively resolve the tension between those two ideas by generating a new one that contains elements of the others but is superior to both."Mr. Martin calls this process of consideration and synthesis "integrative thinking," and contends that it is this ability and not a "superior strategy  or faultless execution   that is the defining characteristic of most exceptional businesses and the people who run them."Intriguingly, Mr. Martin, who interviewed 50 exemplary leaders in doing his research, says many successful executives aren't aware that this is the way they go about processing information.REBOOTING YOUR BRAIN O, the Oprah magazine, asked Nobel Prize winners, MacArthur "genius" grant recipients and others who have won top honors in their field how they "recharge their brains when the ideas stop flowing." Among the answers:¶Right before he falls asleep, the inventor Ray Kurzweil "reviews the specifics of a problem — the background, options context — until they become embedded in his dreams, a state where taboos relax and the rules of logic evaporate," Thea Singer writes.¶The playwright Sarah Ruhl says reading authors who have a very particular approach to language, like Gertrude Stein, can inspire new ideas, "scrambling the letters around in your head so you starting hearing things differently."¶John C. Mather, winner of the Nobel Prize in physics, likes to try to explain what is stumping him to his wife, a ballet teacher. "It makes the problem clearer to me because I have to go back to the beginning and question all the basic assumptions."THE BEST POLICY? "There is honesty and then there's candor," writes Garry Reeder. "They are not the same thing."Mr. Reeder, who used to work on Wall Street and is now an M.B.A. candidate at Columbia, thinks being honest, which he says has "been downgraded to mere compliance with contracts and laws," is not enough because "it's a demand too easily satisfied."Writing in In Character, which describes itself as a "journal of everyday virtues," he says "there are those who believe for example that Enron executives were technically not guilty of dishonesty and fraud, but nobody doubts that they were less than candid." Businesspeople, he says, need to be candid, which he defines as bluntly facing the facts."Candor exhibits the qualities of light in a dark room," Mr. Reeder writes. "Candor cuts through confusion, providing a way forward."FINAL TAKE There is a reason you may get your best ideas in the shower, according to Ladies' Home Journal. But credit your skin and not your brain."According to recent research, warm water running over you body can stimulate the outer layer of your skin releasing molecules that 'talk' to your nerve endings," Tammy Tibbetts writes. "These molecules include beta-endorphins which trigger brain activity."Maybe we should replace all the meeting and conference rooms with showers.PAUL B. BROWNNOT everyone who starts a business wants to have employees.If you are thinking of going solo, Josh Hyatt in an article on  Money magazine's Web site offers some tips. Among them:Give yourself a cushion. "Most people need to set aside a year's worth of income before they cut themselves loose. You'll know within eight months whether you're developing a sustainable business." To increase your chances of survival as a soloist, make sure your entire income does not flow from any single project.Charge enough. "Figure out what you were earning per hour as an employee, and then add in the costs of vacation days, holidays, sick time and benefits. There's administrative overhead, too: if you rent space, say, or need nifty technology. Depending on the industry, you'll want to tack on a profit margin of about 20 percent." Mr. Hyatt says your pay before expenses should be at least double, if not triple, what you made as "a W-2 drone."You can't bill every hour. Expect to spend 20 percent of your time on administration (writing proposals, sending out bills) and another 20 percent on marketing.HIRING EMPLOYEE NO. 1 When do you add your first employee? Not quite as early as you might think, says Joanna L. Krotz.In an article in Microsoft's small business resources center, Ms. Krotz writes: "Don't rush to hire when sales turn strong and cash is flush. All business fluctuates and the cost of adding an employee takes a sharp bite, including compensation, training time and better technology."When you are absolutely ready to hire, she suggests a trial marriage."Before making a full-time offer, let the applicant work for a while so you can see how he or she pans out. Likely as not, this will be a learning period for you, too. You'll figure what you like, or don't like, about managing, and what qualities you want in an employee."GET A LIFE Is it possible to keep your business from taking over your life?Yes, argues financial planner Louis Barajas in a new book with a wonderful title, "Small Business, Big Life," (Thomas Nelson $22.99) but it isn't easy.As expected, he argues that you first need to make a commitment to making "your business a part of your life, as opposed to the other way around."To do that he says:1. Know what you want to accomplish in your life2. Understand how your business can help you attain those goals3. Keep those goals in mind as you go about building your business.But the surprising, and most helpful part of the book is his insistence that you put systems and people in place so that your company operates as smoothly as possible, reducing the time that you need to be involved.Obviously, a crisis at work spills over into your personal life: if you aren't spending time on the problem in the office, you certainly will be spending time worrying about it in what are supposed to be your off-hours.Fewer problems, in theory, means less time at work.LAST CALL In rattling off the reasons people start their own companies — they have a terrific idea for a product or service; they want to be on their own; they think they can capitalize on a market niche, etc. — one factor is frequently overlooked: Their current boss is a jerk.By that criteria, expect a recent study by Florida State University, reported in Black Enterprise, to cause a new round of entrepreneurship.Consider:39 percent of employees said their boss failed to keep a promise.37 percent said their supervisor failed to give credit where credit was due.23 percent said their supervisor blamed someone else to cover up mistakes by the supervisor.The question, of course, if what kind of boss you will be (that is, if you decide to have employees.)TOURISM is by some economic measures the largest business in the world. Oil companies, airlines and manufacturers of ski boots, bikinis and chocolate mints for hotel pillows all depend on its vitality. It is also an unsteady business, erected not on our material need to visit Florence or the Grand Tetons but on the illusions that lead us there, or anywhere beyond the horizon of home.Photographers are major purveyors of fantasies, realistic as well as far-fetched, and as such have been crucial to the industry's growth. Vivid as word pictures of the Great Wall of China can be, they don't wow a reader as instantly as a photograph of its pythonic length and girth can transport a viewer. Without enticing images of turquoise waters and ivory sands, the Caribbean would probably be empty of vacationers. The idea of the seaside as a happy destination, a place to shed clothes, worries and inhibitions, is a modern invention, implanted in our heads by photographs and movies. It's no coincidence that the advent of mass tourism, with Thomas Cook's tours in the 1840s, dates to the popularity of the steamship, the railroad and the camera.Explorers are glorified tourists, and those who set off in the 19th century, for noble or ignoble purposes, quickly grasped what the new technology might do for their enterprises. A photograph could first of all buttress verbal testimony that you had done what you claimed to have done, or at least that you were there. David Livingstone employed his brother Charles to take pictures on his 1858-64 journey along the Zambezi River in Africa. Their failure to bring back photographs — Charles was unqualified to handle the equipment in hellish conditions — did not help charges in newspapers of the time that the mission had been a bust.From then on, few daring treks to anywhere set off without a professional cameraman. Timothy O'Sullivan, who accompanied geologic and military surveys of the American West in the 1860s and '70s, and Andrew J. Russell, hired by the Union Pacific Railroad as it laid track across the country, were both veteran Civil War photographers. Their pictures of desert expanses in Utah and Nevada are now considered works of art, but they were made for sale to the government and the public, in various formats, to help defray the costs of what were long, expensive trips.Even when an expedition was a disaster, as happened frequently when men were racing to the poles during the early decades of the 20th century, photographs could redeem a botched effort. Frank Hurley's plates from Ernest Shackleton's ill-starred trip in 1914-16 to Antarctica on the Endurance supported accounts of the almost unbelievable hardship faced by the crew. Herbert Ponting's movies of Robert Falcon Scott's tour of the region in 1910-13 were supposed to be shown in paying venues on the explorer's triumphant return, a plan that fizzled when Scott was lost and later discovered frozen dead. This hasn't harmed appreciation for Ponting's work, which required its own brand of toughness and courage.To make an independent living, however, photographers have needed to capture dramatic views of places most of us would actually like to visit. Under the right social and political conditions these images can alter the future of the things in the picture.Yosemite Valley was crawling with prospectors and timber merchants when Carleton Watkins visited in 1859-61. It was in part his magnificent stereographs and mammoth-plate (18 by 22 inches) prints of the mountains and forests, images he later sold in his own gallery, that helped to persuade Congress in 1864 to pass legislation that preserved the area as a public trust. Yellowstone became the first national park in 1872, thanks in no small way to Thomas Moran's paintings and William Henry Jackson's photographs of the stunning scenery.The legacy of Watkins and Jackson, crystallized in the pictures and activism of Ansel Adams, illustrates the ability of photographs to idealize certain places and perhaps shelter them against development. For nature tourism to flourish, a country has to show the world it is still dotted with sanctified areas. Photographers have been essential in that movement.As cameras in the 1890s became smaller, cheaper and easier to use, photography was transformed into an amateur's medium. Kodak and other companies advertised the fact that anyone could take a decent snapshot. People recorded family excursions in tiny pictures that went into albums. Photography became a kind of diary.At the same time, the picture postcard industry took off — sales were 850 million a year by 1910 — and allowed access to an unparalleled selection of foreign views for pennies apiece. Like the explorer's more hard-fought images, these proved to friends back home that you had been somewhere. Or, even if you hadn't, by perusing a rack of postcards and buying one — a Gothic cathedral, a remote island — that was tacked above your desk or bed, they functioned as icons for dreaming.The golden age of the photo magazine (1920s to 1960s) was often as much about delivering the vicarious thrill of travel as documenting war and injustice. The great French weekly Vu, which in the late '20s had sounded the alarm about Hitler, was also packed with features about skiing and the beach. National Geographic magazine became a monthly in 1896 and specialized in pictorial reports about exotic lands..Artist photographers have more often been globe-trotting tourists than stay-at-homes. Henri Cartier-Bresson and his Leica darted around Europe, the United States and Mexico in the '30s and throughout Asia in the '50s as he went in search of the surreal in everyday life."The Americans," Robert Frank's classic 1959 book, was imagined as a lonesome highway travelogue about his adopted country. It has been said that Mr. Frank "proved you could photograph anything anywhere." Legions of ambitious photographers, from Stephen Shore to Thomas Struth, have tested themselves against this standard, taking pictures all over the place that highlight the world's strange ordinariness. These photographs were often made to combat the smoothly lovely views of places found in commercial travel magazines.The discretion of the camera in relation to the land — the fact that by taking a picture you are removing something from a scene but disturbing nothing — has appealed to artists in tune with the ecological movement. Since the '70s the British artist Hamish Fulton has walked 12,000 miles across five continents, along paths as stony as anything seen by O'Sullivan and Russell in the American West. Often the only traces of these journeys are a series of unglamorous black-and-whites, which Mr. Fulton sells to collectors and museums.More-fantastic voyages usually call for more-dramatic images. To help sell the space program to the American taxpayer, NASA shrewdly signed the infamous contract in the '60s with the foremost photography magazine of its time, Life. The trippy pictures of astronauts floating against the blackness of the universe and standing among the wastes of the moon somehow justified the billions spent. Many of us felt we had gone into space because we followed the explorers for years on television and in Life.Richard Branson says he believes that space is the next frontier of tourism. The rare chance to view the blue marble of earth from a Virgin Galactic spacecraft will be enough, he hopes, to attract wealthy would-be astronauts for a series of suborbital flights. In a sense, the hard part of the sales pitch was already done by NASA.We know we want to go. Images of life on Mars are tumbling around in our brains. All we need now is the money.MOSCOW, June 6 — The Russian nuclear power company Atomstroyexport has been roundly criticized for helping Iran build its nuclear program. But neither that project nor the company's mouthful of a name has hurt its business prospects.A former branch of the Soviet atomic energy ministry, Atomstroyexport (pronounced atom-stroy-EXPORT) has been the Kremlin's main instrument to meet   rising  global demand for nuclear power, now mainly  from  developing countries.And Russia's state company may just be the right kind of provider,  willing  to deal with governments that other nuclear power companies   shun."We're talking about a nuclear renaissance," Sergei I. Shmatko, the chief executive of Atomstroyexport, said in a recent interview in the company's headquarters in Moscow. "We are certain we have a market."Atomstroyexport is  building seven nuclear reactors  —  in Iran, China, Bulgaria and India — more reactors, it  claims,  than any competitor, particularly Westinghouse and General Electric of the United States, Siemens of Germany or Areva of France.Westinghouse, for example, has contracts for four new reactors in China, but has not begun work. It is a subcontractor or supplier at other sites, including six in South Korea, but is not the primary builder, a spokesman, Vaughn Gilbert, said in a telephone interview. Reactors designed by Westinghouse,  however, remain the most prevalent in the world — 45 percent of  currently operating reactors.In raising capital and gearing up for new construction, the Russians are betting on an outlook  that not everybody shares.Regardless of what choices are made in America, Japan and Europe, which remain wary of new nuclear power plants, the world is poised for another boom in construction, reminiscent of the 1960s and 1970s, as one nation after another seeks alternatives to the fossil fuels that are a culprit in global warming.Today, 26 power plants are under construction worldwide, in countries from Argentina to Romania, according to the International Energy Agency. Of these, only two are being built in  developed economies  —  one each in Finland and Japan.Still, some  industry experts project that future demand will come from the developed economies, including the United States.Steven C. Kerekes, spokesman for the Nuclear Energy Institute, representing owners and operators of  nuclear plants in the United States, said he expected that utilities would build 30 reactors in the next 15 to 20 years. The United States now operates 104 nuclear reactors, more than any other country.The Russians, meanwhile, are in talks with Vietnam, Malaysia, Egypt, Namibia, Morocco, South Africa, Algeria, Brazil, Chile and Argentina, according to Mr. Shmatko.In a sign of the Russians' reach into markets others might avoid, last month the Russian company opened negotiations for a research reactor in Myanmar, formerly Burma, a country ruled by a junta.In Iran, critics say, the Russian company's work on the Bushehr plant gives the Iranian government a justification to enrich uranium, which the United States says could also be used to make bomb-grade fissile material.The Russians counter that the reactor itself is harmless if looked at separately from the effort to enrich uranium fuel. They say the site on the Persian Gulf complies with international treaties and does not contribute to nuclear proliferation.But Atomstroyexport seems eager to rebrand itself as a modern corporation with global reach and interests — not merely as the supplier of nuclear expertise to Iran. Indeed, analysts of nuclear proliferation have not been easy on the company. Many say its narrow business interests have needlessly exposed the United States, Europe, Israel and possibly even Russia, too, to the risk that Iran may one day be able to build a nuclear bomb.Mr. Shmatko said in the interview in his office that the $1 billion project no longer even appeared profitable to the Russians  and his company,  because of rising prices for stainless steel and a shortage of skilled labor in the nuclear industry. He suggested that it was a drag rather than a benefit for Russia's nuclear business.Yet the Iran contract is only a small part of the company's global work and  its expansive plans in the developing world.Atomstroyexport hopes to win  $5 billion to  $10 billion in new business in the coming two years, Mr. Shmatko said.In doing so, he said the company was shaking off Russia's dark legacy of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster by convincing foreign governments of engineering advances in Russian designs since then. Mr. Shmatko said his company's plant in Tianwan, China, is the first in the world to use a  "core catcher," a meltdown-control technology designed to trap the molten slug of uranium in a meltdown and prevent it from burrowing into the earth.The company, he said, is also introducing a new design for emerging markets. It has  a line of minireactors more typical of the power plants for nuclear submarines or ice breakers. They are sized to fit the limited capacity of ramshackle electricity grids in developing countries, he said.Industrial reactors typically produce around 1,000 megawatts of electricity,  enough to power a million American homes. Atomstroyexport says it will market reactors in the 300-  to 600-megawatt range.Indeed, with the potential profits at stake, Western investors, including such heavyweights as Citigroup, are seeking ways to bet on the Russian nuclear power industry.Russia is pushing a business model that bundles nuclear fuel supplies with power plant construction contracts and that seeks  to ensure that spent fuel  —  a potential ingredient for dirty bombs or fission weapons  — is returned to Russia for storage."The world has no alternative but to develop nuclear energy," Mr. Shmatko, a former accountant, said.For now, investors can buy Atomstroyexport corporate bonds that were issued last month and attracted European and American investment houses. The Russian-registered subsidiary of JPMorgan, for example, bought into the $58 million offering, according to Atomstroyexport. A spokeswoman for JPMorgan said it had held only a "very short-term trading position" in the bond and no longer owned any Atomstroyexport bonds.Subsidiaries of a related company, Tvel, which makes fuel rods, trade on Russian exchanges. Citigroup owns about 5 percent of the Priargunsk uranium mine that is part of the Tvel group, according to the mine's Web site.On May 31, Sergei V. Kiriyenko, a former prime minister and head of the Russian atomic energy agency, said the government planned to consolidate nuclear assets into a state-controlled holding  —  a sort of Gazprom of nuclear power  —  to be called Atomenergoprom. That company would incorporate not only Atomstroyexport and Tvel but also uranium mines and companies that make fuel rod assemblies and specialized equipment like gas centrifuges for enriching uranium. Subsidiaries will most likely be open to foreign investment, analysts say.For Russia, the business of building nuclear power plants complements its business in fossil fuels. In fact, Russia's  business of maintaining Soviet-designed plants in Eastern Europe may  get a boost as these countries worry about excess dependency on Russian natural gas from Gazprom and reconsider nuclear energy as an alternative.Atomstroyexport's exact ownership, meanwhile, is something of a mystery. Organized as a joint stock company, it is 50.2 percent owned,  and clearly controlled,  by the Russian government.The rest of the shares, the company's Web site says, are owned by  "Gazprombank group companies."Marina V. Alekseenkova, an industrial analyst with Renaissance Capital in Moscow and an authority on publicly traded companies in the Russian nuclear industry, said that the phrasing shed little light on the private shareholders in the company, believed to be industry and government insiders.And  those already concerned about  Russia's role in the spread of nuclear technology should consider this: the Russian Atomic Energy agency  is looking into developing  floating reactors built on pontoons. The Russians envision a product that could be towed into ports in the developing world  and hooked to the local power grid, for a fee."We are, generally speaking, the absolute monopoly here," Russia's first deputy prime minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, said of  the floating reactors. "Nobody apart from us is able or knows how to build them."Tatiana Lara Rosak, a daughter of Ellen and Charles J. Rosak of Sparta, N.J., was married yesterday to Craig Nils Birkelund, the son of Brit and Helmer B. Birkelund of Baldwin, N.Y. The Rev. Edward Barnett officiated at Holy Trinity Lutheran Church in Manhattan, with the Rev. Robert A. Rimbo taking part.Mrs. Birkelund, 36, is a vice president for sportswear merchandising at Polo Ralph Lauren in Manhattan. She graduated from Cornell and received an M.B.A. there. Her father retired as a captain at Delta Airlines, based at La Guardia Airport.Mr. Birkelund, 40, works with banking and financial services clients in the Manhattan office of Infosys Technologies, an information technology and consulting business in India. He graduated from Skidmore and received an M.B.A. from the London Business School. His mother is a manager in the cargo division of Air China at John F. Kennedy Airport, and his father retired as a carpenter at Queens Hospital Center in Jamaica.Tatiana Lara Rosak, a daughter of Ellen and Charles J. Rosak of Sparta, N.J., was married yesterday to Craig Nils Birkelund, the son of Brit and Helmer B. Birkelund of Baldwin, N.Y. The Rev. Edward Barnett officiated at Holy Trinity Lutheran Church in Manhattan, with the Rev. Robert A. Rimbo taking part.Mrs. Birkelund, 36, is a vice president for sportswear merchandising at Polo Ralph Lauren in Manhattan. She graduated from Cornell and received an M.B.A. there. Her father retired as a captain at Delta Airlines, based at La Guardia Airport.Mr. Birkelund, 40, works with banking and financial services clients in the Manhattan office of Infosys Technologies, an information technology and consulting business in India. He graduated from Skidmore and received an M.B.A. from the London Business School. His mother is a manager in the cargo division of Air China at John F. Kennedy Airport, and his father retired as a carpenter at Queens Hospital Center in Jamaica.Meredith Moss Quinn, a daughter of Teresa St. Clair of London and John B. Quinn of Pasadena, Calif., was married yesterday afternoon to Jason Milton Whaley, the son of Fran and Gary Whaley of Durham, N.C. The Rev. Haywood Holderness, a Presbyterian minister,  officiated at Villa del Sol d'Oro, an event space in Sierra Madre, Calif.The bride, 30, will continue to use her name professionally. She works as  a project manager for  Ithaka, a nonprofit organization in New York that advises other nonprofits on strategies for financing and managing growth. She graduated summa cum laude from Harvard and has an M.B.A. degree  from Stanford. She is the stepdaughter of M. Shannon Quinn.The bridegroom, also 30, is an independent business and technology consultant in New York for financial services and media companies. He graduated magna cum laude from Dartmouth.Victoria Odette Hays, a daughter of Odette and Spencer B. Hays of New York, was married yesterday to Dr. Michael Adam Feuerstein, a son of Deborah and Richard Feuerstein of Scarsdale, N.Y. Cantor Henry Weintraub performed the ceremony at the Point O' Woods Yacht Squadron on Fire Island in New York , with the Right Rev. John S. Spong, the former bishop of the Episcopal diocese of Newark, taking part.The couple met at Hamilton College, from which they graduated.Ms. Hays, 27, is keeping her name. She was until last week an associate teacher in the first grade at the Chapin School in New York. She received a master's degree in education from New York University. Her father retired as a senior vice president and a deputy general counsel at Time Warner, the media business in New York.Dr. Feuerstein, also 27, is to become in intern in general surgery at Albany Medical Center, where he is to begin a residency program in urology, in July. He received his medical degree last month from Albany Medical College. His mother is a certified public accountant in private practice in New York. His father retired as an earth science teacher at Museum School 25 in Yonkers and now owns All Star Photography in Scarsdale.
