The House of Representatives approved legislation yesterday that would put the federal government into the home insurance business to deal with natural disasters like hurricanes and the recent wildfires in California.The legislation, which passed on a vote of  258 to 155, would require the federal government to lend billions of dollars to states to help pay for damage to homes and businesses. The measure now goes to the Senate, where it has the backing of Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Bill Nelson in Florida.The Bush administration has said it would veto the plan because it takes potential business away from private insurers and potentially exposes the government "to steep losses in certain years."But support in the Senate is growing to help people whose homes are vulnerable to natural disasters. Senator Chris Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, who has signaled that he backs the bill approved by the House, introduced two other bills yesterday to help homeowners cope with hurricanes. One would provide a tax credit to offset the rising cost of coverage. The other would provide federal money for people to strengthen their homes against storms and floods.In the last month, the House has voted to extend the insurance subsidy program that was created after Sept. 11, 2001, to pay for up to $100 billion in damage in a terrorist attack. The bill is now before the Senate. The administration dropped its opposition to the terrorism insurance bill after legislators required insurance companies to pay a larger share of the losses from an attack.In opposing the home insurance bill, the Office of Management and Budget said federal subsidies would reduce the pressure on homeowners to pay to fortify their homes and would take tax money from people all over the country to pay for losses by others living in risky areas.The bill does not establish a specific threshold for when government loans would begin to flow. It would make individual states eligible for assistance once they were facing disaster costs that exceed 1.5 times the amount of premiums collected from homeowners and businesses in the previous year. In 2006, the insurers collected $13 billion in premiums in Florida. So damage would have to be about $20 billion to activate the federal loans. Hurricane Andrew, in 1992, caused more than $20 billion in damage in today's dollars. Insured losses in Hurricane Katrina ran to more than $41 billion."When a state is overwhelmed by a mega-event, it seems fair that there's a line of credit," said Ben McKay, the head of the Washington office for the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America. But many insurers opposed the legislation. Marc Racicot, the president of the American Insurance Association, said the legislation would "interfere with the private market."The legislation also lays out a plan for states to create insurance funds, as Florida and some other states have already done. It also would allow them  to collectively sell bonds, widely known as catastrophe bonds, that would provide more capital to pay disaster losses and thus, in theory, make home insurance more widely available and less costly. There is no direct cost to the government in the bond program, but the Office of Management and Budget contended that the legislation would create an implicit guarantee of federal backing for the bonds.Representatives Ron Klein and Tim Mahoney, Democrats of Florida who are  authors of the legislation,  have argued that government backing would be required for only the worst disasters. They also argue  that a reduction in the potential losses for private insurance companies would lead the companies to offer more coverage at lower prices.Support for the bill has picked up as people in Florida struggle with insurance prices that routinely run into the thousands of dollars for an average house.Some Congressional reluctance evaporated as the fires in California destroyed 2,000 homes and underscored the argument of proponents that home insurance was not only a coastal issue.The National Association of Realtors is among the strong supporters of the legislation. It says "the inability to obtain affordable insurance is a serious threat to the real estate market."J. Robert Hunter, the director of insurance at the Consumer Federation of America, said he favored creation of a group of state insurance funds that would help spread the risk of paying for natural disasters.But he said he was concerned that the legislation neither required homeowners to take measures to protect their homes nor required states and companies to set rates that accurately reflect the risk of damage. "If rates are too low, people will build on barrier islands," he said.The American International Group, the world's largest insurance company, said yesterday that it wrote down nearly $2 billion in investments related to mortgages in the third quarter and expected to write down an additional $550 million in the next quarter.The reduction in value in A.I.G.'s investments, detailed as part of its third-quarter earnings report, was the latest in a string of write-downs from big financial institutions and underscored the gravity of the growing crisis in housing-related investments. Merrill Lynch, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley have reported billions in write-downs over the last month.A.I.G.'s write-downs were smaller than many on Wall Street had anticipated, and some analysts said they expected the company's announcement to feed uncertainty about the extent of its exposure to the troubled mortgage-related investments. A result, they said, could be a further slide in the company's already declining stock price. Some investors  had expected a write- down of as much as $10 billion.Before the announcement, A.I.G.'s shares closed down $4.15, or 6.7 percent, at $57.90, far below its price of about $75  two years ago. They  fell as low as $56.50 after hours."Some people are skeptical that A.I.G. has made the correct assessment" of its exposure, said Clifford Gallant, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. They are concerned, he said, that "there may be more out there."For the quarter, net income fell 27 percent, to $3.09 billion, or $1.19 a share, compared with $4.22 billion, or $1.61 a share, in the period a year earlier. Much of the decline, the company said, was attributable to losses in several of its core businesses as a result of declines in the home mortgage business. A.I.G. said it had a decline of $3.5 billion  in the value of some investments before taxes. It said that $1.6 billion of that decline, and an additional $352 million,  was from mortgage-related investments.  Those assets remained on the company's books and were thus not reflected in net income.Martin J. Sullivan, A.I.G.'s chief executive, said that "while U.S. residential mortgage and credit market conditions adversely affected our results, our active and strong risk management processes helped contain the exposure."Mr. Sullivan said A.I.G.'s main commercial insurance unit, airline leasing business and asset-management arm reported strong income growth. But he said life insurance and retirement businesses suffered "as market volatility adversely affected investment returns of certain asset classes."The insurer reported an overall loss of $864 million in an investment portfolio of $872.3 billion. That included $149 million in losses related to residential mortgage-backed securities investments.Wall Street analysts said they regarded the write-down by A.I.G. as less disturbing than those by the banks. So far, no other insurers have reported comparable write-downs, and the analysts said they did not expect to see management changes or financial collapses at any insurance companies.Citigroup has written down at least $12 billion in mortgage-related securities, and Merrill Lynch has written down $8.4 billion. Those companies' chief executives have stepped down amid the losses. Morgan Stanley said last night that it would take a $3.7 billion charge for assets tied to subprime mortgages.A.I.G. and other insurance companies invested in mortgage-related securities mainly for the flow of interest, the analysts said, and they are expected to hold them until maturity in three to five years."The big difference for the banks is that they may be forced to sell these securities," said Thomas V. Cholnoky,  an analyst for Goldman Sachs. "This is not a liquidity crisis for A.I.G. as it potentially is for the banks. A.I.G. generated $8.4 billion in cash flow in the first six months of this year. It has more than $1 trillion in assets."The write-down came as A.I.G.'s stock was trading near its low for the year and a few days after Maurice R. Greenberg, the company's former chief executive and a large shareholder, suggested in a federal securities filing that he was contemplating trying to force management changes at A.I.G.Mr. Greenberg, 82, resigned in March 2005 as chairman and chief executive of A.I.G., which he built into a financial giant over nearly 40 years, after the New York attorney general began investigating the company's accounting practices. Mr. Greenberg and A.I.G. have been feuding since.In the securities filing, Mr. Greenberg said that he saw opportunities to significantly improve A.I.G.'s "performance and strategic direction" and that he was "evaluating strategic alternatives" for the company.Some insurance experts interpreted Mr. Greenberg's securities filing as an indication that he planned to try to rally support from other shareholders and to try to replace some members of the A.I.G. board. Ken Frydman, a spokesman for Mr. Greenberg, declined to comment.Ron Shelp, who worked at A.I.G. for 12 years and has written a biography of Mr. Greenberg, "Fallen Giant," said Mr. Greenberg's timing suggested he thought the company was vulnerable. "I think he's been waiting for the right situation," Mr. Shelp said.Some Wall Street analysts said they doubted that Mr. Greenberg could foment a revolution. The top investors in the company, they said, are not known as activist shareholders and might regard a fight over the leadership as having the potential to drive share prices even lower.To the Editor:Re "A Top House Democrat Offers Tax Overhaul Plan and a Juicy Political Target" (news article, Oct. 31):For too long, tax politics has pivoted simply on one question — do you want your taxes to go up? But the issues are far more complex.Representative Charles B. Rangel rightly points out that there are solutions available that make the system more progressive so that the wealthiest pay their fair share, low- and middle-income families pay less, and we all benefit.Over the last 25 years, the tax system has bent over backward to accommodate the wealthiest among us. We need greater financial literacy in this country, more debate about fiscal priorities, and genuine reform that does not disadvantage working families, many of which are headed by women.Mr. Rangel's plan is a courageous departure from business as usual.Linda BaschSandi MorgenMimi AbramovitzNew York, Nov. 1, 2007The writers, co-authors of "Taxes Are a Woman's Issue," are, respectively, president, National Council for Research on Women; professor of women's studies, Penn State; and professor of social policy, Hunter College.WHITE PLAINS, Nov. 9 — A federal grand jury today indicted Bernard B. Kerik, the former New York police commissioner appointed by Rudolph W. Giuliani while he was mayor, on charges that include tax fraud, obstruction of justice and lying to the White House.In announcing the indictment, Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said it was a "sad day when this office returns an indictment against a former law enforcement officer, particularly one who served in positions as high as those held by Bernard Kerik.""But we will not hesitate to pursue any public official who violates his oath and betrays the public trust as Mr. Kerik is alleged to have done," Mr. Garcia said. "Nor can we tolerate lies to those who are given the critical tasks of vetting individuals for important public posts."Mr. Kerik pleaded not guilty a short time later in United States District Court here. Magistrate George A. Yanthis said he would release Mr. Kerik on $500,000 bail. Mr. Kerik turned himself in to an F.B.I. office here earlier in the day, where he was fingerprinted and processed and then taken by United States marshals to the federal courthouse.Mr. Kerik left the courthouse amid a throng of reporters and some protesters who criticized Mr. Giuliani and his former police commissioner."This is a battle," Mr. Kerik said. "I'm going to fight."The charges against him together carry a maximum penalty of 142 years in prison and $4.7 million in fines. According to sentencing guidelines, he will most likely face lesser penalties.Three years ago, Mr. Kerik was at the pinnacle of his career, having risen from a beat cop and driver to Mr. Giuliani during his mayoral campaign, to the top candidate to head the Homeland Security Department, with the backing of Mr. Giuliani, his friend and mentor.The indictment is already looming over Mr. Giuliani's campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, as he promotes himself as a tough law-and-order candidate. Mr. Giuliani, who has had no public appearances so far today, was not commenting on the matter, although on Thursday he said of Mr. Kerik that he had made "a mistake in not checking him out more carefully."Mr. Giuliani's adviser, Randy M. Mastro, sought to put the matter of Mr. Kerik in perspective. "People should be fair to one another and look at the totality of their record," he said.Mr. Giuliani's Republican rivals were quick to seize on the indictment of Mr. Kerik, using it to call into question Mr. Giuliani's judgment. In an news conference on Friday morning, Senator John McCain and Tom Ridge, the former head of the Department of Homeland Security,  called into question whether Mr. Kerik should ever have been recommended for a job as important as directing a massive federal agency."I had a view of what the job entails," Mr. Ridge said. "All I can say is Mayor Giuliani's judgment is different than mine."Mr. McCain said he never thought Mr. Kerik was qualified for the job at Homeland Security, even before it was known that he would be indicted.He recalled the former New York City police commissioner's brief stint training the Iraqi police force. When Mr. McCain visited Iraq in 2003, he said Mr. Kerik was there at the time."He stayed a couple of months and then up and left," he said. "That should have been a part of anybody's judgment whether to recommend that individual to be the head of the Department of Homeland Security. His contribution to the training of the police and law enforcement people in Iraq, which was ostensibly why he was there, was less than successful."The campaign of Mitt Romney also moved quickly to highlight the issue, sending reporters a long list of what they said showed Mitt Romney's long record of pressing for strict ethical standards from public officials.The 14-count indictment accuses Mr. Kerik of accepting work valued at $255,000 on his apartment from a company, Interstate Industrial Corporation, that was seeking to do business with the city. He is also accused of accepting more than $200,000 in rent payments made on his behalf to use a luxury Upper East Side apartment from a Manhattan developer with whom he had agreed to conduct business.Mr. Kerik was head of the city's Department of Corrections, and later police commissioner when some of the payments were made, and he was, Mr. Garcia said, "in effect, selling his office, in violation of his duty to the people of the city," the indictment said.Interstate, which was not named in the indictment, but referred to only as "XYZ," was suspected of having ties to organized crime, and was seeking a city license to operate a transfer station when it paid for the work.The indictment said that Mr. Kerik lobbied for the company by "contacting on XYZ's behalf regulators and other public officials who were considering whether XYZ should be licensed to do business in NYC and awarded municipal-regulated business."Mr. Kerik is charged with tax fraud for not reporting the gifts as income on his tax returns. He is also charged with lying about these matters while he was being considered for the top homeland security post.While the government was "vetting him for an important federal position involving national security," Mr. Garcia said of Mr. Kerik, "time and again Kerik was asked specific questions about his financial dealings, and time and again he lied."He is also charged with conspiracy for urging others to lie about these matters when they were questioned by investigators.While Mr. Giuliani served as mayor, he appointed Mr. Kerik, who was a New York City detective, to a series of positions within his administration, finally naming him police commissioner in 2000. He later recommended him to President Bush, who nominated him in 2004 to be secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. But Mr. Kerik's nomination quickly collapsed when he said he had not paid taxes on a nanny who cared for his children.In the following days, Mr. Kerik was the subject of a stream of accusations about personal, ethical and financial improprieties.Last year, he pleaded guilty in state court to misdemeanor charges related to the renovations. Some of the tax and corruption charges listed today stem from the renovations and Mr. Kerik's relationship with Interstate, including his efforts to lobby for the license on behalf of the company, which had hired his brother and a close friend, people close to the case said.The company never received the license, and city officials did not learn about the renovations until after Mr. Kerik's nomination for the Homeland Security position collapsed in 2004.But Mr. Giuliani has acknowledged that New York City's investigations commissioner, Edward J. Kuriansky, told him that he had been briefed about some of Mr. Kerik's involvement with Interstate before the police appointment. And Mr. Kuriansky's diaries and later recollection support the commissioner's account.Mr. Giuliani has said that neither he nor any of his aides can recall being briefed about the Interstate matter, and that, as a bottom line, Mr. Kuriansky had cleared Mr. Kerik's appointment.Mr. Kerik lived in his apartment in the Bronx during a period in which he served as the city's correction commissioner, a position he left in August 2000 when Mr. Giuliani elevated him to the police post against the advice of many in his cabinet. Crime declined during Mr. Kerik's service, and he was widely credited with helping to improve police relations with many black leaders.Mr. Kerik lived in the luxury Manhattan building around the time he left the police post for the private sector at the end of 2001. The monthly rent for the apartment, at the Lucerne, at 350 East 79th Street, was more than $9,000 and was paid for by Mr. Witkoff, a friend, said a person with knowledge of the payments.In late 2001, at the end of his 16-month term as New York police commissioner, the reckless side of Bernard B. Kerik played out on three stages.In the Bronx, Mr. Kerik had put his apartment up for sale at an asking price boosted by lavish renovations paid for by a contractor. Prosecutors say Mr. Kerik had tried to help that contractor while he was a city official.In Manhattan, he had moved into a luxury apartment paid for by a real estate executive, a gift prosecutors say he accepted without paying taxes.And overlooking the still smoldering ruins at ground zero, he was using an apartment that had been donated to the city as a respite for recovery workers as a rendezvous for trysts with his paramour, Judith Regan, the publisher of his memoir.Tough guy. Innovative manager. Charmer. Loyal friend. Mr. Kerik, 52,  has a many-sided personality that has endeared him to a full slate of powerful people, including a publisher, a mayor and a president. But, as yesterday's indictment illustrates, he often also appears to enjoy living on the edge, repeatedly exposing himself to situations that could destroy his personal and professional life."Bernie is a multidimensional character who is street-smart, emotional, fearless, picks up complex organizational issues quickly, and is also a risk-taker," said Michael P. Jacobson, a former city correction commissioner who served as Mr. Kerik's boss. "Those are all qualities that can make one an effective leader — and get one into trouble at the same time."By his own account, Mr. Kerik's first sojourn to Saudi Arabia in 1978 was formative. During 30 months working security at a construction site in the desert, Mr. Kerik, then 22, learned from a squad of mercenaries and disillusioned Vietnam War veterans how to carry himself with a "quiet, dignified confidence." He also developed a taste for the spoils of mercenary pay: Gucci shoes, Rolex watches, European suits, according to his memoir.As a city police officer, his professed dream career, he would rise to detective, distinguishing himself on dangerous undercover drug investigations during seven years on the job. He was still a police officer in 1993 when he began working security and as a driver for Rudolph W. Giuliani, then a mayoral candidate. The relationship would set the course for the rest of his life.In early 1995, Mayor Giuliani appointed Mr. Kerik first deputy commissioner of the city's Correction Department, the second-highest rank in a agency. The same year, Mr. Kerik met Lawrence V. Ray, a businessman willing to share the money he had made in various insurance and technology endeavors. The two became friends, regularly working out and dining together.About a year later, when Mr. Ray was warned that a mobster wanted him dead because of a business deal gone bad, Mr. Kerik called a friend at the F.B.I. to set up a meeting between Mr. Ray and agents.Nothing about the episode prompted Mr. Kerik, a law enforcement official, to distance himself from Mr. Ray. Rather, he continued to ask Mr. Ray for money and other gifts, including help in buying an apartment and subsidizing his wedding reception. He would continue to call Mr. Ray his best friend until Mr. Ray was indicted in March 2000 for a minor role in the mobster's stock fraud scheme.By then, Mr. Kerik had made other friends through Mr. Ray from whom he accepted gifts. One, a real estate developer named Nathan Berman, invited Mr. Kerik to vacation at his family's seaside villa in Majorca and provided him with a personal loan of $28,000 to help buy the Bronx apartment in 1999.Mr. Ray also introduced Mr. Kerik to Frank DiTommaso, the owner of a construction company that had long battled allegations that it was too close to organized crime figures. Prosecutors say Mr. DiTommaso's companies paid $165,000 to renovate Mr. Kerik's Bronx apartment, starting just months after the two met and at a time when the company was seeking help with city officials who were withholding a city license from the firm. Mr. Kerik met and called city officials involved in the license review on the company's behalf, investigators say.Mr. Kerik also took risks in his personal life. He dated a married subordinate in the Correction Department, Jeannette Pinero; Mr. Kerik has said the affair ended before he married his current wife, Hala, in 1998. In 2001, he also dated his publisher, Ms. Regan.When a necklace he had given to Ms. Regan seemed to disappear, along with her cellphone, from a television studio, homicide detectives were dispatched to the station's make-up artists' homes in the middle of the night.And when he sought to learn about his mother's life and death, for his memoir that Ms. Regan was publishing, he sent police officers who worked for him to Ohio.As charming and self-deprecating as he often was, Mr. Kerik also survived in public life because some people felt intimidated by him.In early 1995, he sat in front of the grizzled wardens of Rikers Island, his bulky frame tucked into a dapper suit. A series of embarrassing revelations had just led to the departure of Giuliani's first correction commissioner, Anthony Schembri. Some wardens were suspected of leaking the information and Mr. Kerik was the new deputy in the department."I am a hunter of men," Mr. Kerik said, according to several people who were present. He spoke of employing a management style akin to that of Attila the Hun and promised to destroy the career of anyone who crossed him.When Mr. Kerik left city service in 2002 and joined Mr. Giuliani in the private sector, he enjoyed not only the fame that came with his association with the heroism of 9/11, but also newfound wealth. Taser International, a maker of stun guns, put him on its board and he earned more than $5 million by selling stock options in the company several years ago. Mr. Giuliani also paid him a salary of $500,000.Still, according to yesterday's indictment, he welcomed the help of Steven C. Witkoff, a commercial real estate developer and something of a cop buff, who picked up his annual rent of more than $100,000 on the Manhattan apartment.None of Mr. Witkoff's gift was reported as income, according to federal prosecutors who view such conduct as not only reckless, but criminal.The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee has proposed legislation that would effectively halt some current tax audits of people who get a tax break for living and operating a business in the United States Virgin Islands.Many beneficiaries of the tax break are campaign contributors to the lawmaker, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, according to data collected by CQ MoneyLine, which tracks political contributions.At least one of them, Richard G. Vento, is currently under audit, according to court filings. Mr. Vento gave $4,400 last year to the Baucus-Rangel Leadership Fund, which supports Mr. Rangel and Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee.Beneficiaries of the tax break including Michael W. Masters and Richard H. Driehaus, money managers, accounted for more than half the $51,900 that individuals in the Virgin Islands gave last year to  Rangel for Congress, the chairman's campaign organization.  Mr. Rangel raised almost three times as much from such donors last year as in any other year in the MoneyLine database.Mr. Rangel says his measure is simply an effort to address a discrepancy between the Internal Revenue Service's treatment of Americans living in the Virgin Islands and its treatment of their mainland counterparts.  Except in cases of fraud, the agency has three years to cite errors in a mainland resident's tax payments. But since 2006, under I.R.S. rulings stemming from the agency's efforts to crack down on abuse of the tax break, it has faced no such time limit in auditing  Virgin Islands residents.The Rangel provision would restore the statute of limitations in the islands."This is a fundamental matter of fairness," the congressman said in a statement. "U.S. citizens living in the Virgin Islands should be afforded the same protections as citizens living here."As to whether donations from such taxpayers had influenced his decision to offer the proposal, he said, "I am overwhelmed with appreciation for the support I have received from across the nation, and I am certain that I have had supporters from the U.S.V.I. well before the question of legislation ever came about."The provision is  in a broader tax relief bill intended to prevent some 21 million American households from falling subject to the alternative minimum tax this year. That broader bill was approved by Mr. Rangel's committee last week.The Virgin Islands tax break — an effective federal tax rate of only 3.5 percent on income earned in the islands — is tied to a program to encourage economic development there. It has existed since the 1960s, but it gained momentum over the last decade as the Virgin Islands government opened the program to services companies in an effort to attract  educated, affluent workers.Financial services companies and their executives began flocking to the islands, taking steps like contributing to local charities as ways of establishing residency, which was required to capitalize on the program's tax benefits.The I.R.S. became suspicious that many were spending more time running their businesses on the mainland than in the islands, and in 2003 it undertook enforcement efforts that, lawyers in the islands say, have ensnared some 100 taxpayers, not all wealthy.Mr. Rangel's proposal would end any such audits involving years before 2004. That upsets Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican responsible for legislation that year that tightened  rules governing taxes on Americans in the Virgin Islands."Congress rarely takes action that affects ongoing I.R.S. audits," Mr. Grassley said in a statement, "so it's striking that House leaders are proposing changes in the statute of limitations for U.S. taxpayers who are newly claiming residency in the Virgin Islands."Marjorie Rawls Roberts, a lawyer who represents Mr. Vento and other Virgin Islands residents, said some of her clients might benefit from the provision, but not all of them."The limits would end some audits at least for some years," Ms. Roberts said. "At the same time, the I.R.S. has sought and received timely extensions from some taxpayers, including Mr. Vento, and in cases where extensions have been granted, the new limits would not apply."Ms. Roberts, who is herself a donor to Mr. Rangel, and other lawyers said the agency had closed only a handful of the audits undertaken. At least one beneficiary of the tax break has pleaded guilty to tax fraud, and four others were indicted on tax and wire-fraud charges in March.Mr. Vento is fighting the I.R.S. in court over its claim that he was not a bona fide resident of the Virgin Islands in 2001, when he made some $180 million from the sale of a company he had founded, and that he therefore owes back taxes. In the meantime, the agency continues to look at subsequent years.Some lawyers speculate that the I.R.S. eliminated its time limit last year simply because inquiries involving the tax break were multiplying faster than it could handle them."I think they are conducting audits that are spinning out of control, and so some genius decided to just get rid of the statute of limitations," said David Marshall Nissman, a former United States attorney for the Virgin Islands who says he has five or six clients currently under audit.Mr. Nissman said many  newer participants in the economic development program withdrew from it after it came under intense scrutiny from Congress and news organizations in 2004. "I think for the most part the abusers are gone," he said. "But I'm sure there are still a few."John B. Mattingly became New York City's child welfare commissioner aiming to bring accountability to the dozens of private agencies the city paid hundreds of millions of dollars each year to care for foster children.Mr. Mattingly also brought to the job a long history as an ardent supporter of the idea that endangered children would fare best if the people in the neighborhoods they came from were involved in their care and protection.And so in the spring of 2005, Mr. Mattingly found himself faced with a delicate and complex challenge. Evidence of fraud, mismanagement and the mistreatment of children had led him to end contracts with two of the city's largest neighborhood-based, minority-run foster care agencies. Those, he acknowledged, were the easy calls.But he  had also put six of the eight remaining minority agencies on notice that they would be investigated and perhaps closed, as well. Their performance in recent years had left them ranked near the bottom of the roughly 40 agencies the city entrusted with its most vulnerable children, and he wanted to be sure there were not other disasters looming.Mr. Mattingly and his staff realized that what they were contemplating — all but ending a 20-year experiment in allowing minority agencies to care for many of the city's thousands of abused or neglected black and Latino children — could be divisive, and they prepared themselves for the backlash.Brenda Hart helped provide the passionate resistance. In recent years, Ms. Hart's Bronx agency, Family Support Systems Unlimited Inc., had been identified by the city as troubled — allowing children back into abusive homes only to see them returned to foster care, for example.Ms. Hart was upset by Mr. Mattingly's action, and  determined to resist it. She and others argued that the city's system for evaluating its foster care agencies was flawed, and that the city was failing to acknowledge that agencies like hers — started from scratch in the burned-out Bronx of the early 1980s — were often left to deal with the most challenging and unwanted children.Churches, local politicians and families rallied to save her organization. As she pressed ahead, the five other minority agencies under review made their own efforts to persuade Mr. Mattingly's staff to keep their programs alive."I felt people had negative opinions without really taking a look, and I am not sure that wasn't solely because we were minority," Ms. Hart said. "I can't even understand that we were on a list."Mr. Mattingly said he was open-minded, but sent in a city team to examine Family Support and the other minority agencies. He had also placed three white-run agencies under review.The city's evaluations had provoked genuine concern about just how well the agencies were protecting and providing for several thousand children. The poor scores were no mere bureaucratic accounting. They reflected problems across more than a dozen measures — from the levels of abuse in foster homes to adoption rates to how well the agencies kept track of whether children were being fed and clothed, attending school and receiving medical care.Along with his review, Mr. Mattingly and his aides pledged to study the experiences of the city's minority agencies, and to consider the recommendations of a task force he had set up to explore ways that such agencies could be preserved and supported."We wanted to confront their perspective and come to understand it," he said of the minority agencies. "I am reasonably confident that we were in the position to make some judgments about quality of work. I did not need them to tell me about that."But since I was new to New York, I sure needed some help figuring out how we ended up where we were. And what we might do to save the good things while at the same time not jeopardizing quality."Making a ChangeOn the afternoon of May 16, 2005, about a dozen people convened in a conference room in the Park Avenue offices of the United Way of New York City, which provided grants, training and other support to minority foster care programs.This was an early meeting of the special task force on minority agencies, which Mr. Mattingly had appointed after  the criticism from Ms. Hart and others.To some on the panel, his decision to place six of the city's remaining eight minority agencies under review was brazen and insensitive. And they felt that the move, which he announced publicly, had imperiled a modest network at a time when almost all of the 18,000 foster children were black or Latino."We do not believe that any foster care agency of color can be lost," Ralph Dickerson Jr., then chairman of the Black Equity Alliance, wrote in the New York Nonprofit Press, an influential trade publication.The task force members, who came from diverse racial and professional backgrounds, were largely in agreement on the unique attributes of minority agencies: their cultural sensitivity and their locations in needy neighborhoods, as well as their struggles for money and survival.If there was one characteristic the agencies all shared, one witness told the task force, it was this: "They were all founded," he said, "on a wing and a prayer."In meetings over the next several months, the members traced the history of the minority agencies in New York, and what they saw as the inequities in the system, the task force's minutes show.In one presentation, Alma J. Carten, who teaches social work at New York University and was a child welfare official under Mayor David N. Dinkins, described what she saw as the "second-class treatment" of minority children in the "white-led child welfare system."She said there had been a "persistent lack of understanding" of the "culture, needs, and strengths of children and families of color." Yet minority agencies,  Dr. Carten added,  still represented only a small part of the city's foster care network at a time when "children of color constitute the overwhelming majority of the clients in this system."Another member, David Tobis, executive director of the Child Welfare Fund, said he was not initially convinced of the need to keep every minority agency. "My view was, you look at the performance of the agency, and you keep the agencies that are performing well," he said.But he said he came to agree that the minority agencies were critical to the system "even if they are not the peak performers." He also concluded that the city's evaluation system had its own problems.For example, the system awarded points to agencies for the number of adoptions they completed and how fast they were done. Yet minority agencies argued that black and Latino children sometimes benefited from staying in stable long-term foster care with a relative, rather than being placed for adoption with a stranger. That philosophical choice could cost an agency points."In this field, as in many other fields, numbers do not always tell the story," said one task force member, Megan E. McLaughlin, former executive director of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, which has long offered training and other support to the minority agencies.When the task force ultimately issued its recommendations, one was that the city modify its scoring system to better capture the virtues of minority agencies. The task force also urged the city to create a pool of public and private money for  grants to minority agencies.Some of the recommendations spurred debate among executives of the established organizations about their fairness.Poul Jensen, president of one of the oldest agencies, Graham Windham, which has some 900 foster children, circulated a letter about 10 months ago to industry colleagues and to Mr. Mattingly in which he enthusiastically supported the task force's recommendations. But he opposed "a publicly financed special fund for this group.""In my view," he wrote, "it would not be a good idea to treat minority agencies as a special, protected class so as 'to insure that these agencies will survive.'"He said the "public good will be best served" by fairly holding all agencies to account, and by having every agency try to incorporate the special benefits seen in well-run minority agencies. Fighting BackMr. Mattingly's rigorous review of Ms. Hart's agency, Family Support, turned up some worrisome findings. An audit, for example, concluded that the agency's finances were in danger.City child welfare workers in the Bronx, the ones with the most contact with the agency,  complained about Family Support's performance. Their assessments were often scathing: "There seems to be a lack of leadership," one wrote; "Foster parents are not always bilingual and yet they foster English-speaking children," read another; yet another concluded that the entire agency did not fully understand the policies of the child welfare system.But the city investigators also listened seriously to Ms. Hart's defense, and considered what she said was Family Support's crucial role in the community. Her argument, in many ways, offered an intensely personal and specific portrait of the kind of experience the task force had looked at more broadly.Ms. Hart, a black social worker with a master's degree from Columbia,  founded Family Support in 1982 in a distressed section of the Bronx, and she said it had been a  labor of love.She said that when she opened an office on the Grand Concourse, she had money only for raw space. She begged at local banks, which donated used copying machines and furniture. She said she got painters from a local job-training program to work for nothing.Over time, her agency grew to have nearly 1,000 foster children, but there was never enough money, she said. For years, the city paid Family Support, like many of the newer agencies, less for each child than it paid the more established organizations — the result of a longstanding reimbursement formula that rewarded the agencies that spent the most and raised the most private money. And for an agency deep in the Bronx, fund-raising was not easy."Minority agencies, for whatever reasons, seem to have a more difficult time gaining access to some of these resources," she said.The city's criticism was particularly galling, she said, because for years she had taken on any child sent her way, regardless of their challenges, handicaps or history of mistreatment or violence."We did not follow the money; we followed our hearts and our souls," she wrote to Mr. Mattingly at one point. In an interview, she later added, "We always wanted our own."Supporter and SheriffAs he considered what to do with the minority agencies under review, Mr. Mattingly had to reckon with his own personal loyalties.Before his appointment in mid-2004 by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, he had spent much of his career supporting the idea of minority foster care programs. As director of child welfare in Toledo, Ohio, just as that city was being hit by the crack epidemic of the mid-1980s, he had seen the shortcomings of a system largely overseen by traditional foster care agencies."We were staffed by all these white women from Bowling Green University," Mr. Mattingly recalled of the city's child welfare operation. "They were lovely and well intentioned, but had no more idea about the neighborhoods that they were going into than the man on the moon."And so during the decade he later spent as an executive at the Annie E. Casey Foundation, one of the most influential child welfare organizations in the nation, he put the foundation's money where his heart was. He gave grant money to agencies in dozens of cities to help them develop a local system of care that would draw upon the wisdom and commitment of local communities. New York was one of those cities.But now, in 2005, he found that New York's experience had been mixed. He said he felt fully empowered by Mr. Bloomberg — a mayor committed to the strict measurement of outcomes and the meritocracy that implied — to be tough if that was warranted.And he knew he had a rare chance to further justify any unpopular moves. The city's foster care population was in steep decline — the crack crisis had ended, and as a matter of policy, the city had been trying to keep children in their homes. Agencies, then, would have to close. The city just did not have business for them all. It was a once-in-a-generation opportunity to preserve the best and start weeding out the agencies that had consistently performed poorly.Still, he and his aides could not help but be uncomfortable even considering terminating Ms. Hart's agency or any of the other minority operations.Anne Williams-Isom, an African-American lawyer and one of Mr. Mattingly's top aides, felt the gravity of what they were contemplating."I am thinking of black and brown high school students brought into a predominantly white school through a program meant to encourage diversity, and then it turns out most of them are struggling and on academic probation," she said. "It's not about giving them a pass, but wouldn't you want to make sure they had the skills and resources to be competitive with their white counterparts?"By May 2005, Mr. Mattingly had decided to continue the foster care contracts of five of the six minority agencies that had gone through reviews. Two of the agencies, he found, were so new that they deserved more time, and the other three, including Family Support, were showing improvement. Indeed, in an evaluation a few months later, another of those three, Edwin Gould Services for Children and Families, ranked first among all the city's foster care agencies.Mr. Mattingly  also chose not to close any of the three white-run agencies that had  been placed under review.Later, he said he would try to put the task force's recommendations in place."I don't want to be the commissioner who walked in here and wiped off a majority of the minority-led agencies," he said. An Uncertain StartToday, some 2,400 children remain in the care of seven minority foster care agencies. But more than two years since Mr. Mattingly formed his task force, its recommendation for better evaluating minority agencies has yet to be carried out.The question of how to revamp the city's performance scoring system for foster care agencies, in fact, is still the subject of study and debate among child welfare officials.Some of that discussion has centered on the difficult question of how much to credit agencies for what is known in child welfare circles as "cultural competency."It can be a hard thing to define, and to measure.At its most basic, it is an agency's ability to bring a special understanding and sensitivity to the question of how different communities — black or Jewish, Latino or Russian — raise, discipline and provide for their children.City officials concede that they are still struggling with questions as fundamental as how such intuitive skills can be measured in concrete, trustworthy ways. Toward this end, they have sent out teams to investigate cases in which an agency has succeeded in this regard. And they have hired a  Hunter College professor as a consultant.Mr. Mattingly is firm in his belief that cultural strengths can and must be measured. His staff, though, still has not settled on how much cultural competency will count, especially when compared with critical measurements like safety and the ability to find permanent homes for children.The other major recommendation of the task force — that the city create a public-private fund that would support minority agencies — also posed a problem because of questions about how the city could participate in a fund that gave grants exclusively to minority-led agencies.One consultant, Eric Brettschneider, a  child welfare official under Mayor Edward I. Koch, wrote to Mr. Mattingly that the city could define the fund's potential beneficiaries not by their "status as a minority-governed" agency, but by other attributes that applied, like being "truly embedded in the community," offering "culturally competent" services, and having leadership that reflected "the people that they serve."In the end, the city decided not to create or pay into a fund, but said it would provide a staff member to work at a fund administered by United Way of New York City.Mr. Brettschneider, who now works at United Way, said the funding criteria are still being worked out, and the plan is to seek money from private, federal, and state sources. Some private foundations have already contributed money, he said.Recently, the fund made grants to several minority-led agencies, including some that had been under review by the city. One of them was Family Support, which was given about $22,000.The grant was aimed at improving the agency's ability to track and document the care children were receiving.But the problems at Family Support still run deeper than such basic concerns.The city, for instance, has met recently with lawyers for foster children in the Bronx who have been troubled by the agency's handling of cases. And in September, Ms. Hart and her staff were called in to meet with the family court judges of the Bronx to hear criticism about the agency's continued poor performance. Ms. Hart, for her part, said she had her own complaints about the judges.As for the city, a recent examination conducted by the Department of Investigation found substantial failings in the  oversight of many foster care agencies, minority or otherwise. Mr. Mattingly, though, said his office was positioned to keep closer track of the foster care providers.The reason, he said, is a series of reforms he enacted this year that include sending teams of child welfare staff members into the agencies themselves to conduct checks and provide regular feedback. This means, he says, that the city will identify and fix problems more quickly.But Steven Banks, attorney in chief of the Legal Aid Society, whose lawyers represent 90 percent of the 30,000 children who appear in family court each year, said there was a "significant gulf between excellent policy initiatives by the city and the day-to-day realities of suffering by children and families in the foster care system."Mr. Mattingly said  he would not be afraid to act. "I don't care who is running the agency or what the purpose of any program is, if you don't do the basics, you can't do the work," he said. "And I don't back off that at all."A defiant Bernard B. Kerik, the former New York police commissioner, vowed yesterday to fight a 16-count federal indictment, setting the stage for legal proceedings that could cast a shadow over the presidential campaign of his friend and one-time mentor, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, deep into the 2008 election season.The new felony charges in some ways echo the case brought against Mr. Kerik last year by state prosecutors, who allowed him to plead guilty to misdemeanor charges of accepting costly renovations to his Bronx apartment and failing to disclose a $28,000 loan to help buy it.At the heart of that case were allegations that a construction company with suspected ties to organized crime paid for the renovations in the hopes that Mr. Kerik would help it obtain a city license.There are also new elements to the indictment that was unsealed yesterday, including charges that Mr. Kerik failed to disclose a $250,000 loan financed by an unnamed Israeli businessman and did not report as income more than $200,000 in rent paid by a developer on an Upper East Side luxury apartment.Mr. Kerik, wearing a dark blue suit with an American flag pin on the lapel, pleaded not guilty at the federal courthouse in White Plains and then walked down the steps to address a horde of news cameras and reporters."My life has been marked by challenge," Mr. Kerik said. "Whether it was growing up, being a cop, Rikers Island, the New York City Police Department, or the worst challenge, until this time, my challenges during and after 9/11. This is a battle I'm going to fight."He was released on a $500,000 bail, secured by his New Jersey home, and forced to surrender his firearms and passport.In a sign of the political problems Mr. Kerik's case could pose for Mr. Giuliani, the campaign of Senator John McCain, a rival for the Republican nomination, seized on the indictment to criticize Mr. Giuliani for ignoring warning signs about Mr. Kerik."A president's judgment matters, and Rudy Giuliani has repeatedly placed personal loyalty over regard for the facts," said Rick Davis, Mr. McCain's campaign manager.Announcing the indictment, Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney in Manhattan, accused Mr. Kerik of failing to report more than $500,000 in income from 1999 through 2004, which includes three years as the city's correction and police commissioners. He said Mr. Kerik, who was briefly President Bush's nominee to lead the Department of Homeland Security, had sold his office for $250,000 in apartment renovations."It is a sad day when this office returns an indictment against a former law enforcement officer, particularly one who served in positions as high as those held by Bernard Kerik," Mr. Garcia said during a news conference.If convicted of the most serious charges, Mr. Kerik could face a maximum of 20 years in prison, although under sentencing guidelines, any prison term probably would be much shorter.The indictment marked just the latest chapter in Mr. Kerik's fall from grace. He left office in 2002 with international fame from his time at Mr. Giuliani's side after the Sept. 11 attacks and found new wealth from a best-selling memoir about his rise from hardscrabble beginnings.But his life unraveled as it reached its highest moment in 2004, when President Bush nominated him for the Homeland Security position. Mr. Giuliani had recommended him for the job.Mr. Kerik soon withdrew the nomination, citing his failure to pay taxes on an illegal immigrant whom he had hired as his nanny. News reports soon followed, exploring financial entanglements and ethical problems that led the city to begin an investigation.Judge Stephen C. Robinson of United States District Court held a preliminary conference on the case immediately after the arraignment yesterday. An assistant United States attorney, Perry A. Carbone, said prosecutors would turn over 20 cartons of material, and documents from a 2005 wiretap on Mr. Kerik's cellphone that intercepted some 2,500 calls.Mr. Kerik's lawyer, Kenneth M. Breen, said he would seek to suppress the wiretap evidence and have some counts dismissed based on "very significant statute of limitations issues." He also said several witnesses in the case had made statements inconsistent with the charges.Among the new allegations in the indictment are charges that Mr. Kerik failed to disclose the $250,000 loan from an unnamed Brooklyn businessman in June 2003; Mr. Kerik was in Iraq helping to train a new police force at the time. The indictment alleges he knew that the money had come from "a wealthy Israeli industrialist whose companies did business with the federal government." The loan was repaid in June 2005.The tax fraud charges include failing to report as income the $255,000 in renovations to his Bronx apartment, $236,269 in rent on the Upper East Side apartment for two years beginning in December 2001, consulting fees of $20,000 for two months in 2002, and royalties of $75,953 on a book of photographs about the Sept. 11 attacks.Mr. Kerik had written a foreword for the book.  Others involved, including the publisher and Fire Commissioner Thomas Von Essen, donated more than $500,000 in proceeds to the New York Police and Fire Widows' and Children's Benefit Fund.The roles of the construction company at the center of the corruption charges, Interstate Industrial Corporation, and its two owners, Frank and Peter DiTommaso, are detailed in the indictment, but none are referred to by name. The DiTommasos are facing state perjury charges in the Bronx.The false statement charges against Mr. Kerik largely stem from what prosecutors say was his failure to report secret financial entanglements when he was being vetted for the Homeland Security position.At the news conference announcing the indictment, David A. Cardona, head of the criminal division in the New York City F.B.I., pointedly noted that a police officer can face trouble for accepting a cup of coffee. "If a free cup of coffee is wrong, Mr. Kerik's long list of alleged crimes is repugnant," Mr. Cardona said. "A century apart, Teddy Roosevelt and Bernie Kerik held the same job. There the similarity ends."Patricia J. Haynes, the special agent in charge of the I.R.S. Criminal Investigation Division who oversaw the tax portion of the inquiry, said that Mr. Kerik's alleged tax crimes were more troubling than such acts committed by others."As a public official, he should be held to a higher standard  — that's what the public expects," she said.Thomas A. Reppetto, co-author of a history of the city police department, said Mr. Kerik was the first city police commissioner to be indicted for crimes in office since the position was created in 1901.At a news conference organized yesterday by the McCain campaign in Concord, N.H., Tom Ridge, former head of the Department of Homeland Security and a McCain supporter, criticized Mr. Giuliani for recommending Mr. Kerik to head Homeland Security. "I had a view of what the job entails," said Mr. Ridge. "All I can say is Mayor Giuliani's judgment is different than mine."Standing beside Mr. Ridge, Mr. McCain recalled an encounter with Mr. Kerik in Iraq during the summer of 2003."He stayed a couple of months and then up and left," Mr. McCain said. "His contribution to the training of the police and law enforcement people in Iraq, which was ostensibly why he was there, was less than successful."The campaign of another Republican candidate, Mitt Romney, issued a statement that did not mention the indictment, but contained a long list of what it said showed Mr. Romney's record of demanding high ethical standards from public officials.The Giuliani campaign responded that the former mayor should be judged on the totality of his record and raised questions about Mr. McCain's own involvement two decades ago in a savings and loan scandal."It's no fairer to judge Rudy Giuliani on the basis of this one issue than it would be to judge John McCain on the basis of the Keating Five scandal," said Randy M. Mastro, a former deputy mayor and Giuliani adviser. "I think the mayor has done something refreshing in American politics. He has actually acknowledged he made a mistake and that he has learned from it."Mr. McCain was exonerated by a Senate ethics committee in the Keating case.Former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the crime-fighting successes of  the disgraced former police commissioner, Bernard B. Kerik, outweighed his legal problems, and added  that "if I have the same degree of success and failure as president of the United States, this country will be in great shape."In an interview with The Associated Press in New Hampshire, Mr. Giuliani said  that he had erred in not thoroughly vetting Mr. Kerik, who is now under a federal investigation for accepting free renovations while he was working for Mr. Giuliani from a construction firm suspected of having links to organized crime. But Mr. Giuliani said that Mr. Kerik's wrongdoing did not diminish what he had accomplished for the city."There were mistakes made with Bernie Kerik," Mr. Giuliani said in the interview. "But what's the ultimate result for the people of New York City? The ultimate result for the people of New York City was a 74 percent reduction in shootings, a 60 percent reduction in crime, a correction program that went from being one of the worst in the country to one that was on '60 Minutes' as one of the best in the country, 90 percent reduction of violence in the jails.""Sure, there were issues," Mr. Giuliani added, "but if I have the same degree of success and failure as president of the United States, this country will be in great shape."Mr. Kerik is now facing a possible indictment on a range of federal felony charges, including perhaps tax evasion and bribery, stemming in part from his acceptance of $165,000 in renovations to his Bronx apartment paid for by the construction firm, Interstate Industrial. In June 2006, Mr. Kerik pleaded guilty in the Bronx to state misdemeanor charges relating to the same renovations.Mr. Giuliani, who in 2004 supported Mr. Kerik's failed nomination to become secretary of the federal Department of Homeland Security, told The A.P. that "it was a mistake not checking him out as thoroughly as I should have.""I don't like surprises," he said in the interview. "I don't like to find out things that I haven't found out myself. Not that it hasn't happened to me before. But I try to tighten up the whole thing and make sure we do a better job in the future."The New York Times reported on Saturday that Mr. Giuliani ignored a number of warning signs when, in 2000, he chose Mr. Kerik as his police commissioner, over the objections of more than half his cabinet.Mr. Giuliani, in testimony last year to a state grand jury, acknowledged that the city's investigations commissioner, Edward J. Kuriansky, had told him that he had been briefed at least once about Mr. Kerik's involvement with Interstate. Mr. Giuliani said, though, that neither he nor any of his aides could recall being briefed about it.But a review of Mr. Kuriansky's diaries, and investigators' notes from a 2004 interview with him, now indicate that such a session took place. Mr. Kuriansky also recalled briefing one of Mr. Giuliani's closest aides, Dennison Young Jr., about Mr. Kerik's entanglements with the company just days before he was appointed police commissioner, according to the diaries he compiled at the time and his later recollection to the investigators.In his interview with The A.P., Mr. Giuliani said that he had not spoken recently with Mr. Kerik, who also  worked with Mr. Giuliani  in private business. And he said he did not know what effect an indictment of Mr. Kerik, or a guilty plea from him, might have on his campaign."I have no idea what's going to happen, first of all, nor do I have any idea what he's going to do," Mr. Giuliani said.Mr. Giuliani, who is  using this week to try to introduce his  pre-Sept. 11 biography to voters, has already apologized several times for the Kerik matter. But yesterday he cast his mistakes  as evidence of his experience."I made mistakes," he said. "I will continue to make mistakes. But what are the results? What kind of results do I get? What Bernie Kerik did wrong did not implicate what the results were for the public. What he did wrong, he's going to have to pay for.""When you do a lot of things, there are more things where you've made mistakes," he added. "Anybody running for president that hasn't made their share of mistakes is probably not ready to be president. The question is, in spite of the mistakes that you make, are most of your decisions correct?"
