SHAREHOLDER activism, which its proponents say is intended to make corporations more accountable, ethical, profitable and transparent, is "threatening the future of American business."So argues Martin Lipton, founding partner of the New York-based law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, in a scathing article in The Conference Board Review. "Activism, and the corporate governance changes it has brought about," he argues, "have caused a shift in the board's role from guiding strategy and advising management to ensuring compliance and performing due diligence."He also says that new governance rules, along with the threat of personal liability, are forcing board members to spend less of their time trying to help companies improve.Mr. Lipton adds that "shareholder litigation against directors has grown to be a big business and a type of extortion."Not surprisingly, he concludes that the litigation, coupled with the media attention and "reputational damage to the directors who are sued," is making it hard to find qualified candidates to serve on boards.DEBT IS GOOD Forget all the talk about the national debt being out of control and the personal savings rate being negative, writes Kenneth L. Fisher, who runs a $30 billion global money management firm. The real problem is that Americans don't owe enough."Debt is so good, we could use much more of it," he writes in Financial Planning magazine.His argument is that Americans are underleveraged. If people borrowed more, they would have more money to spend and they would make the economy stronger.Mr. Fisher contends the average household is far from tapped out.He puts total household assets at  $68.92 trillion, citing data from Standard & Poor's and the Federal Reserve flow-of-funds account. Total liabilities are  $13.29 trillion, he says, which means people have lots of borrowing power.As for the negative savings rate, Mr. Fisher points out, as others have, that it does not include things like capital gains and contributions employers put into pension plans."Even worse is something called 'owner's imputed rent,' " he adds. "This is what the government accountants think homeowners should pay themselves to rent the homes they own and occupy. When you own your home outright, your official savings is reduced by this fictitious amount — a sort of depreciation equivalent."Mr. Fisher says if the imputed-rent charge were eliminated, the personal savings rate "would increase dramatically — from negative territory to over 7 percent of G.D.P."He concludes, "The savings rate simply doesn't reflect reality."GENIUS GRANTED If you have ever wondered how the "genius grants," officially known as MacArthur Fellowships, are awarded, or why so few businesspeople get them, Harvard Business Review provides the answers.Daniel J. Socolow, the director of the MacArthur Fellows Program, said in a Q. and A. with Diane L. Coutu that the foundation does look for the extremely bright, but to say it is looking for geniuses is too limiting."We're looking for people who are trying to come up with something new, who play at putting things together in novel ways. There's no easy definition for that. That's why we use somewhat messy terms like 'exceptional creativity,' 'outstanding talent,' 'extraordinary originality,' 'insight' and 'potential.' "However you describe them, potential recipients cannot apply for the $500,000 fellowship, which is given with absolutely no strings attached. They must be nominated by a group of people who remain anonymous. "Final recommendations are made to the foundation's board by a group of people we call selectors," Mr. Socolow said. There are about a dozen of them and they serve three- to five-year terms.As for businesspeople, Mr. Socolow said, "we have yet to consider a business nominee for whom the market wasn't a better source of support than we would be."FINAL TAKE Hasbro is replacing the paper money in its Game of Life board game with Visa cards, reports Money magazine, which asks, "What's next, dollhouses with helocs?" (that is, home equity lines of credit). PAUL B. BROWNFORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.  —  Several insurance companies have decided their old strategy for handling car-damage claims is in need of repair.Rather than putting the onus on customers to find a body shop, get an estimate and arrange a rental car, Progressive, Geico and others are setting up one-stop service centers to handle every aspect of the claim.The centers are emerging as a new competitive arena among insurers. And while consumer advocates applaud the new convenience,  they also see a conflict of interest."The downside is that you're turning over your car to somebody who has a vested interest in maybe chiseling you out of a couple of bucks," said J. Robert Hunter, the insurance director for the Consumer Federation of America. Mr. Hunter suggested that customers get an independent assessment of damage and repairs.The insurers acknowledge that they negotiate with repair shops for the lowest possible price. And they say the new centers benefit them as well as their customers:  the quicker the insurers get damaged cars back to their owners, the less the insurers have to spend on rental cars.But they say their objectives of getting old customers to renew coverage and attracting new ones would be defeated if they were found to be short-changing customers."We want a fair price to repair cars at the highest standard, and we want to keep our customers," said Brian Passell, chief of claims for Progressive, the nation's third-largest auto insurer.More insurers are fighting over those customers. The auto coverage business, with about $160 billion in annual revenue, has become highly profitable  as prices have risen and costs have declined because accidents are fewer and less severe.These companies have long had a contentious relationship with repair shops. They provide these shops with more than 90 percent of their business.But the shop owners also complain bitterly that the insurers have been steadily offering them less money for their work and that quality has suffered.  The insurers say that they guarantee repairs for the life of a vehicle and that they do not give repeat business to shops that do not meet their standards.The body shops also contend that in violation of insurance regulations, insurers try to steer policyholders to the one-stop centers and to the lowest-cost shops.Mr. Passell said Progressive recommended its new centers as "the very best level of service there is," but that customers could also get cars fixed at any shop they chose."You'll never have a satisfied customer if you push them to do something they don't want to do," Mr. Passell said.Partly because of the tension with the body shops, the insurers started setting up these service centers in a few cities. The feedback has been good, they say, and they are now expanding and starting to promote the new service in advertisements.Progressive, which was the first to try one-stop service, opened 29 centers last year, for a total of 62. And Mr. Passell said he hoped to eventually offer the company's "concierge service" to 80 percent of its customers.There are 295 Geico Express centers around the country, with 50 more to be opened this year. Travelers is offering its version of the service at 39 locations, and plans to add 5 to 10 more every year. Geico is a unit of Berkshire Hathaway.More than a dozen people who took their cars into consolidated centers in South Florida  said in interviews that they were pleased, even when the repair work was not quite up to snuff.When Jennifer Chance arrived at the Progressive center west of here in the town of Tamarac to take home her pickup truck  — when Progressive said it would be ready —   she found that the panel on the driver's side door was missing several screws and flapping loose. So the pickup had to go back to the repair shop.Trying to make up for the inconvenience, Progressive gave her an upgrade to a bigger rental car and asked her to come back the next day.  She could not return then, and Progressive said she could keep the rental car for another day.  For her, Progressive's cheerful staff kept things from turning sour."This is definitely better," she said of Progressive's program. "They were all very nice. I know if I have a problem I can just go back to Progressive and not have to argue with the shop people. Plus the shops are always back in the warehouse districts or wherever."Bob Lieberman, a business consultant and car buff, was also disappointed when he went to pick up his Mercedes. He found a new dent in the door on the driver's side. It took several more days to get his car, but he said he was still happy."I've owned over 100 cars and made many claims," he said. Often, he said, insurers and body shops "treat you like you're guilty.""Here," he said, "there's nothing but smiles."For most of the customers interviewed at the Progressive Center, there were no snags. Nancy Ahrens dropped off her damaged Chrysler convertible one afternoon and drove off in a rental car about 20 minutes later. She picked up the car on schedule a few days later and, she said, it looked like new. "The convenience of having everything right there and not having to go running around town," she said, "was really good."FOR decades, the Marsh & McLennan Companies relied on word of mouth and personal relationships to maintain a client roster of the biggest corporations and to bring in new business. And it grew into the world's largest insurance broker.But two years after being staggered by accusations of rigging bids and taking kickbacks from insurance companies, Marsh & McLennan has hired Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of the WPP Group, to deliver a campaign of newspaper and magazine advertisements to run in publications including The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, BusinessWeek and The Financial Times.The ads, which are also appearing in New York City on bus stop billboards and in subway cars, do not refer to the damage to the company that  included the resignation of Marsh & McLennan's chief executive, Jeffrey W. Greenberg, in late 2004. The company also paid $850 million to settle a lawsuit by the New York State attorney general in early 2005. But the tag line, "Find The Upside," seems to carry a dual message that implicitly speaks to Marsh & McLennan's recent problems while explicitly urging corporate clients to enlist Marsh & McLennan's expertise as they wrestle with their worst problems.While its rivals were also accused of betraying the trust of their clients, Marsh & McLennan paid by far the most to settle, and Wall Street analysts say that the other brokers have rebounded more quickly.Financial analysts and advertising executives call the Marsh & McLennan ads an encouraging sign that the company is shifting from a defensive posture. And while the ads are more sober by far than, say, the ones that feature the Geico gecko and cavemen, the experts said they broke out of the mold of insurance advertising, which has often relied on fear to sell coverage for hurricanes or plant explosions or lawsuits."They're trying to reframe insurance," said Barbara E. Kahn, a vice dean at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania who has taught marketing for 25 years. "Insurance has always been a negative. The idea of turning the risk into a gain is an interesting idea."The ads have been running since late April as full-page ads, some in sets of three pages.  One opening page  begins with the headline question: "Climate Change Regulations, What's Your Upside?" Another starts, "Navigating China: What's Your Upside?" A third says, "Where There's a Risk, There's a Way."Michael G. Cherkasky, who succeeded Mr. Greenberg as chief executive of Marsh & McLennan a few days after the lawsuit was filed in 2004, said in an interview  that "Find the Upside" is now "the theme of the company."As customers and senior brokers fled the troubled ship, Mr. Cherkasky seized an opportunity to trim the work force, which he has cut by 13 percent, to 55,500. He also developed the idea of offering a comprehensive approach to the problems of clients  — not just their insurance needs  — by creating teams of experts drawn from the company's separate consulting units.The Marsh & McLennan umbrella includes a number of big names in financial services, from the signature Marsh insurance division to Mercer Human Resource Consulting to Oliver Wyman, a leader in general business consulting, and Kroll, which advises on security and corporate intelligence. None of the other insurance brokers can match Marsh & McLennan with these broader resources, analysts say.The range of expertise, Mr. Cherkasky said, led to the team approach and to a proposal to address overall corporate risk. The goal is to provide strategies for handling  risks for which no insurance policies have yet been invented, like the prospect of having crucial executives hired away or the potential damage to a company's image of taking on a project  — like drilling a new oil well, for example — that could make money but draw criticism from environmentalists.The big-picture approach is often referred to as enterprise risk, and some analysts are skeptical that Marsh & McLennan can pull it off successfully.Alain Karaoglan, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said it sounded like another form of cross-selling which, he said, "is tough to do.""It seems to make sense," he said, "but I need to see the benefits in dollars and cents."Mr. Karaoglan said the Marsh & McLennan ad campaign is "getting noticed" and that "on the margins it should be helpful." But, he added, "it's tough to know what brings revenue to the brokers."Mr. Karaoglan is recommending that investors buy Marsh & McLennan stock — but partly,  he said, because he thinks the chances of the company's being taken over are increasing. Whether it thrives again or is bought, Mr. Karaoglan said, its stock price will probably rise.Brian R. Meredith, an insurance analyst at UBS, said the ad campaign underscored Marsh & McLennan's hope of reaching into the huge middle market of companies with annual revenue of $500 million or less."Marsh has historically dominated the large corporate accounts," he said. "The ad campaign is not going to help there. The large corporations know Marsh. But perhaps as you move down to some of the middle market companies or smaller, the ad campaign might help with a little bit of brand recognition."One of the main issues, Mr. Karaoglan said, is the cost of the ad campaign and whether that cost is offset by increased revenue.Mr. Cherkasky said that Marsh & McLennan was spending at least several million dollars on the campaign and that he regarded that as modest for a company with annual revenue of about $12 billion. But he declined to be more specific.Some companies routinely disclose their ad spending, and Marsh & McLennan's reticence raised questions for Professor Kahn. She said her guess was that the company did not "want a number associated with how much they're paying to mitigate the damage to their reputation."Rebecca  Louise Kristol,  a  daughter of Susan S. Kristol and William Kristol of McLean, Va., is to be married today  to Elliot  Adam Silver, a  son of Dr. Orli R. Etingin and Dr. Jonathan S. Silver of New York. Rabbi David Kalender  is to officiate at the National Building Museum in Washington. The bride and bridegroom met at Duke, from which they graduated.The bride, 24, works at Gerson Lehrman Group, a business  in New York that provides services and software to companies and institutions doing research. The bride specializes in Web site design and development.Her father is the editor of The Weekly Standard, a political journal published in Washington.The bridegroom, 25, received a law degree this month from New York University. In September, he is to become an associate at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, the New York law firm.His mother is the vice chairwoman of the department of medicine at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in New York and is also the Lisa and Sanford B. Ehrenkranz professor of clinical medicine at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University. His father is a clinical professor of psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine and from 2003 to 2005 was the  president of the American Neuropsychiatric Association.Since DaimlerChrysler agreed  to sell off its money-losing Chrysler division, Chrysler executives have had to tread a fine line in expressing their reactions to the automaker's return to American ownership. After all, their old bosses in Germany will still be, in a sense,  nearly 20 percent their new bosses. The private equity firm  Cerberus Capital Management will own the other  80 percent of Chrysler.On one hand, as Chrysler's chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda, jubilantly said, "We'll be able to run it the way we want to run it." But Mr. LaSorda did not want to talk about how his vision had  differed from the way his bosses in Germany made him run the company.At a groundbreaking ceremony for a new axle plant in Michigan last week, Chrysler's vice president for manufacturing, Frank J. Ewasyshyn, began his remarks by saying, "It's really nice to see a banner that says, 'the Chrysler Corporation' " instead of DaimlerChrysler. Afterward, he told reporters that the sale gave Chrysler "an opportunity to do things that are more difficult" and "a chance to break out."Mr. LaSorda has expressed relief at no longer needing to spend so much time on trans-Atlantic business trips.While meeting with 400 employees at Chrysler's headquarters in Auburn Hills, Mich., on Monday, a week after appearing in Germany for the sale announcement, he joked: "I got an e-mail from my wife. She said: 'Tom, you looked great on TV. I wonder what you look like in person.' " NICK BUNKLEY BANNED BUT NOT BOWED  Dr. Martin B. Leon, a cardiologist at Columbia University Medical Center, is still denying accusations that he prematurely disclosed  the basic result of a major clinical trial.  Nor is he willingly retreating from his roles as a prominent agenda-setter for debate in his profession and a go-to guy for companies working on new medical devices.But he is accepting the punishment meted out by the American College of Cardiology for comments about the clinical trial, which studied the value of treating clogged arteries with heart stents in addition to drugs. The college said last week that Dr. Leon would  be barred from presenting research or participating in expert panels at  its   annual scientific meeting in Chicago next year.Dr. Leon issued a statement last week  saying that he was not contesting  the   penalty and letter of censure regarding what he described as  "informal remarks" at a symposium sponsored by Boston Scientific  in New Orleans  two days before the results were to be released. He said the comments, reported in The Wall Street Journal, had been "exaggerated."Now that his punishment is settled, Dr. Leon said, attention should turn to "what some regard as a flawed research embargo process." Presumably, he was referring to the practices imposed by publicity-conscious medical journals and medical societies to control the release of research results. But Dr. Leon, who was in Barcelona last week  for a major European cardiology meeting, was not available to elaborate.BARNABY J. FEDERA BREAK FROM BUSINESS Josie Natori, who left investment banking in 1977 to found  the Natori Company, which makes women's clothing and bedding, has yet another talent: she is a  classically trained pianist.  She made her debut with the Manila Symphony Orchestra at 9, but, she says, she decided to go into a career in business.She has, however, continued to study, and celebrated her 50th birthday in 1997  by hiring Carnegie Hall to play Schumann and Rachmaninoff with the Orchestra of St. Luke's. She considered  performing again in public for her 60th birthday but decided against it because she is too consumed with company matters and her son's wedding in June, she said last week at a benefit for the Orchestra of St. Luke's at Jazz at Lincoln Center in New York."In my apartment I have two grand pianos," she said. "At the very least, I will have a musical evening at home and invite people" instead of holding another public concert.  She said she joined  the board of the Orchestra of St. Luke's to  stay  in touch with the music world. "It's so easy to be buried in the shmatte business."JANE L. LEVEREYOUR BEST TABLE, PLEASE Michael R. Milken, the former junk bond wizard, should have no trouble getting a prime table for lunch at the Grill from now on. His wife practically owns the place.A company controlled by Mr. Milken's wife, Lori, has quietly become the biggest shareholder in Grill Concepts, which built the Beverly Hills restaurant the Grill on the Alley into a coast-to-coast chain of 25 restaurants. Most are casual restaurants called Daily Grill, but the Grill on the Alley is where Hollywood power brokers like Ron Meyer, the head of Universal Studios, and David Geffen, a co-founder of DreamWorks, do lunch.Mrs. Milken's company, Eaturna, which sells healthy food through grocery stores and at Los Angeles International Airport, acquired its 14.4 percent stake from Starwood Hotels and Resorts. In exchange, Starwood received a stake in Eaturna, whose shareholders also include Andre Agassi and Steffi Graf. PATRICK McGEEHANCreditCoversThe most recent figures from the Federal Reserve noted an uptick of more than 9 percent in "revolving credit" — that is, the debt carried by the millions of American consumers who don't pay off their cards every month — putting the total at $888.2 billion as of March. Still, some consumers have come to see the credit card as an emblem of something other than an albatross of monies owed. A few months ago, a company called CreditCovers started selling "skins," with special designs that consumers can stick over the fronts of their cards, theoretically transforming them from mere financial tools to emblems of identity and potential conversation starters.The CreditCovers back story is almost comically straightforward. Anthony David Adams, who had recently obtained a graduate degree in urban planning from the University of Wisconsin at Madison, wanted to think up a business that would involve selling something that wouldn't cost much to produce and could be sold on a mass scale. He had noticed the growing popularity of "skins" — slipcovers with clever designs — for laptops, cellphones and iPods. Why not a skin for the cards that we all carry? "It just kind of hit me," he says.He took his idea to an acquaintance, Bowen Dwelle, the C.E.O. of Admonsters, an association in San Francisco for advertising tech professionals, and they brainstormed designs and other details; the prototype card slip featured a skull with heart-shaped eyes. "I actually drew that myself," Adams says. He picked up a book called "I Am 8-Bit," featuring art inspired by 1980s video games, and contacted as many of the 80 or so artists listed in the back as he could. This led to a design from a Los Angeles comic-book artist called Food One, among others. The first line of CreditCovers ($5 each) also included designs called Louis the XIV and Burs & Berries — one resembles the famous pattern Takashi Murakami created for Louis Vuitton handbags, and the other has a Burberry plaid look — attributed to a designer called The Truth (who is actually Adams). Dwelle, under the nom de art O-B-Nyce, contributed a Mexican flag design and an all-white version that makes "your credit card look like your cool, glowing white iPod."Adams's girlfriend is the eponymous owner of a Madison boutique called Sukara Sterling, which was the first purveyor of CreditCovers. Sterling and Adams each posted the products to StyleFeeder, an online social network built around shopping, and in a matter of weeks the skins were hyped on a variety of product and techie blogs. A site called Charles & Marie, billed as "the quintessential lifestyle navigator" (a mission that involves frequent invocation of the phrase "BUY NOW"), made CreditCovers its pick of the day, twice. Adams says that he has already sold "several thousand" of them. He figures it makes sense that the aesthetically demanding consumer would want to snazzy up the "bland, kind of corporate" look of a plain credit card. Sure, you can get an "affinity" credit card advertising anything from World of Warcraft to the Rotary International, but his skins are easier to obtain — and to replace when you get tired of one. He even sees a "subversive" appeal: "Taking this icon of capitalist consumerism, putting some edgy artwork on it and kind of retaking that canvas."The idea of a rebellious credit-card design is a little hard to fathom. (Imagine angry colonists deciding that rather than flinging unfairly taxed tea into Boston Harbor, they would empower themselves as consumers by "customizing" it with cool new blends of their own devising.) But Adams says that his fledgling business is guided by progressive values that demanding consumers care about: The skins are made at a Wisconsin factory that treats its workers well, he says, and he has been buying offsets that make his business "carbon neutral"; he's planning a "Save Darfur" card skin, with proceeds going to charities. And maybe there's something inevitable about converting the credit card from a tool for acquiring expressive objects into one of those objects. So Adams has commissioned a second round of designs, which he says will include contributions from Todd Francis, the skateboard artist, among others, and is lining up more boutique retailers. In the meantime, he is making the most of his sales through the CreditCovers Web site — where, needless to say, all major cards are accepted.Like most companies, Office Depot has long made sure that its chief executive was the highest-paid employee. Ten years ago, the $2.2 million pay package of its chief was more than double that  of his No. 2. The fifth-ranked executive received less than one-third.But the incentive for reaching the very top of the company is now far greater.  Steve Odland, who runs Office Depot today, made almost $12 million last year, more than four times the compensation of the second-highest-paid executive and over six times that of the fifth-ranking executive in the current hierarchy.As executive pay has surged in most American companies, attention has focused on the growing gap between the earnings of top executives and the average wage of workers in cubicles or on the shop floor. Little noticed, though, is how much the gap has also widened between the summit and the next few echelons down."It's executive pay chasing executive pay," said Mark Van Clieaf, managing director of MVC Associates International, a consulting firm that develops compensation plans. "But nobody looked at the issue of internal pay equity, so the disparity just kept getting bigger."Few are deprived in corporate suites, of course. But the widening disparities in business, which show up in a variety of other ways, reflect a dynamic that is taking hold across the economy: the growing concentration of wealth and income among a select group at the pinnacle of success, leaving  many others with similar talents and experience well behind.In the 1960s and '70s, chief executives running the nation's biggest companies earned 80 percent more, on average, than the third-highest-paid executives, according to a recent study by Carola Frydman of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Raven E. Saks at the Federal Reserve. By the early part of this decade, the gap in the executive suite between No. 1 and No. 3 had swollen to 260 percent.Many experts argue that chief executives have a particular ability to drive their own pay upward, in part by manipulating directors they work closely with and encouraging the use of consulting firms that have a built-in incentive to increase pay packages for those who hire them."There's a sense that the C.E.O.'s pay is not determined by supply and demand," said Robert J. Gordon, a professor of economics at Northwestern University.There is some truth to that, but economists who have recently studied the issue contend that basic economic forces still play a big role in determining pay at the very top of the corporate ladder. It just happens to be working to the advantage of an increasingly narrow slice of business leaders.The pay of chief executives, analysts say, is being driven by superstar dynamics similar to those that determine the inordinate rewards for pop stars and athletes —  a phenomenon first explained by Sherwin Rosen of the University of Chicago in 1981 and underlined more than a decade ago by the economists Robert H. Frank and Philip J. Cook in their book "The Winner-Take-All Society" (Free Press, 1995).As American companies, American hedge funds — and even American lawsuits  —  have grown  in size, it has become ever more valuable to get the "best" chief executive  or fund manager or litigator. This has fueled a fierce competition for talent at the top, which has pushed economic rewards farther up the ladder of success, concentrating the richest pay levels even more."There is an interaction between technology and scale which is true in all these businesses," said Steven N. Kaplan, a finance professor at the Graduate School of Business of the University of Chicago. "One person can oversee more assets, and this translates into more money."The gap in executive pay is widening even at companies that once had more even-handed practices. At Wal-Mart, for instance, the top executive 10 years ago made some 40 percent more than his second in command. Last year, H. Lee Scott, the chief executive, received more than twice as much as  his chief administrative officer, John B. Menzer."Wal-Mart was under the influence of its founder for so long, and he had a different set of values than the current managers," said Graef S. Crystal, a leading expert on executive pay. "He was much more egalitarian. These are professional managers."The changing rewards for corporate executives are not unlike the acute concentration of wealth among  entertainment industry superstars, with television, the globalization of movie audiences and the spread of digital technologies having  allowed those at the very top to generate enormous incomes at the expense of those that might be slightly less popular.Alan B. Krueger, a Princeton economist, found that the share of concert ticket revenue taken by the top 1 percent of pop stars — measured by sales per concert —  rose to 56 percent in 2003 from 26 percent in 1982.Similarly, the best-paid baseball player 20 years ago, Gary Carter, earned $2.4 million from the New York Mets, 41 percent more than the 25th-ranked, Tim Raines of the Montreal Expos. This season, the $28 million, pro rated, that the Yankees will pay Roger Clemens is more than double the paycheck of David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox, who is 24 rungs down.This even more skewed pattern at and near the top of the income ladder has become a sort of national standard. From 1985 to 2005, the incomes of taxpayers in the top 10th of earnings rose about 54 percent after inflation, to an average of $207,200, according to Thomas Piketty of the Paris School of Economics and Emmanuel Saez of the University of California, Berkeley.But among the top 1 percent of taxpayers it increased 128 percent, to $812,500. And among the top 0.01 percent it nearly quadrupled, to $14 million on average.Corporate executives, for all the attention they have drawn, are far from a majority of the superwealthy. Mr. Gordon and Ian Dew-Becker at the National Bureau of Economic Research estimated that executives accounted for 20 percent of the income in the top 0.01 percent of the scale. Others put their share lower — around 8.5 percent.As for the gap between C.E.O. pay and that of executives working under them, one reason may be that the larger share of stock options in top executives' compensation packages these days makes the gap widen when the market is rising, as it was in the late 1990s and generally these days. By contrast, it narrowed somewhat in the first years of the decade, when equity prices fell.Still, that does not fully explain the current situation, fueling the debate over runaway executive pay. Standard views tend to splinter between corporate apologists, who say that top executives have tougher jobs and are more deserving than in the past,  and critics who accuse many of them, in essence, of doing little more than larding their pay at the expense of stockholders.At Office Depot, a spokesman, Brian Levine,  said, "We usually don't comment on our executive compensation other than to say all our programs are linked directly to performance."Mr. Scott of Wal-Mart, at a recent lunch with reporters, argued that his pay had shot up in relation to the rest of the executive pack in part because today's chief has a much more demanding job than a decade ago."As we enter a world that is more complex, the company places value on things that go beyond the running of the business," Mr. Scott said. "There are aspects of interfacing with the external world that are more like running a presidential campaign than running a business."But a number of economists argue that the steep growth of executive pay has less to do with the complexities of the job and more with the competition for talent among American companies.Kevin J. Murphy, a professor of finance at the University of Southern California, said that in the 1970s, fewer than 10 percent of chief executives were hired from outside and most of those were brought in to save a company in distress.Since then, he argued, generalist executive skills have become more valuable to companies than expertise in whatever the company does, leading to fewer businesses' promoting executives from within. By 2000, more than a third of all new chiefs were brought in from outside.As a result, more C.E.O.'s find themselves in the enviable position of being pursued by competing suitors. And this type of market does not exist to the same extent for executives one or two notches down."A really successful C.E.O. can have a significant impact on the stock price," said Joseph E. Bachelder, a tax lawyer who advises firms on executive pay, "and I'm not sure I can say the same is true generally about the C.F.O. or a general counsel."As companies grow and expand globally, the value of the top executive can grow exponentially. In a study last year, two economists, Xavier Gabaix of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Augustin Landier of New York University, argued that the fast rise in pay of corporate C.E.O.'s mostly reflected the growing size of American corporations.Processing reams of data, the economists estimated that hiring the most effective chief executive in the country would, statistically, increase the stock value of a company by only 0.016 percent, compared with hiring the 250th chief executive. But at a company like General Electric, which is worth about $380 billion, that tiny difference would amount to $60 million.This, the economists argued, helps explain why that top chief executive earned five times as much as the 250th. "Substantial firm size leads to the economics of superstars, translating small differences in ability to very large deviations in pay," the economists wrote.But all the attention on chief executives as business superstars raises new questions. In a report published last year, Moody's Investors Service said it would start taking into account the difference in pay within an executive team in its bond ratings."It raises issues of key-person risk and of whether the C.E.O. has too much authority," said Mark Watson, managing director of the corporate governance group at Moody's. "We are rating the company, not the person. A bus might come by and knock the person over."A new study examining turnover among top executives has found that corporate boards were nearly three times as likely to pull the trigger on failing chief executives  than they were a decade ago.Nearly one of three chief executives who departed last year were either fired or forced out for performance-related reasons, according to the analysis by the global management consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton.  That compared with roughly one in seven departing executives ousted in 1996.While the study concluded that the wave of executive turnovers appears to have leveled off from its  high point last year, shareholders and boards were still keeping the boss on a short leash."It is really a new peak, and we expect that C.E.O. turnover will remain at that level, roughly the same level of all employees," said Steven B. Wheeler, a Booz Allen Hamilton consultant who helped lead the analysis.At 2,500 of the world's largest public companies, 357 chief executives, or 14.3 percent, left their jobs in 2006, a decline of 1.2 percent from the previous year. But performance-related turnover remained high. Some 4.6 percent of the 357 executives were forced out in 2006, slightly lower than in 2005 but well above the 1.7 percent a decade earlier. The average chief executive's tenure is just short of eight years.The annual study, to be released in June in the next issue of the journal Strategy + Business, shows the extent to which boardroom culture has changed since the Enron scandal. Increased regulatory scrutiny has heightened the pressure on executives. Imperial chief executives are losing their grip. And activist hedge funds and private equity investors are demanding results or  leadership changes.These same dynamics appear to be bidding up the cost of departure packages as executives demand big payouts even when they fail.Using similar methodology, an analysis of exit packages by James F. Reda & Associates, a compensation-consulting firm in New York, found that chief executives who were ousted from the 1,000 largest American companies in 2006 were given more than $1 billion on their way out.The Booz Allen Hamilton study also suggested that the recent boom in private equity buyouts and in mergers and acquisitions had increased top executive turnover. Over all, the departures of 79 chiefs, or 22 percent of those who left, resulted from a merger or buyout in 2006. That compared with 11 percent of executive departures in 2003 and 1.6 percent in 1996.The analysis found that just 0.7 percent of North American chief executives were forced to step down after disclosures of options backdating. While that may seem low, the vast majority of executives who resigned in the fallout from the options scandal were at small companies, which were not included in the analysis.WHEN a tree falls in a forest, chances are that it can be heard all the way to Wall Street, and throughout other financial circles as well.Once the exclusive province of businesses and individual landowners, timberland is being held increasingly by big institutions — from pension funds and university endowments to private funds and real estate investment trusts — that are looking for new ways to diversify their investments.According to industry estimates, financial institutions now own nearly 5 percent of the forests of loblolly pine, Douglas fir and other widely harvested trees in the United States, and that percentage is expected to widen. A significant portion of the timberland is held through privately run timber investment management organizations, or TIMOs. Twenty-five or so years ago, their exposure was virtually nonexistent.Why the interest in this asset class? For one thing, returns have been, well, solid and growing. Timberland produces revenue from sales to lumber and paper companies, with uses ranging from home building to disposable-diaper production, along with long-term gains from the value of the property itself.At the Hancock Timber Resource Group, a TIMO with $6.6 billion in assets and 3.8 million acres under management worldwide, returns after fees averaged 13.8 percent, annualized, from its inception in 1985 through last year, according to Courtland L. Washburn, the chief investment officer. The National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries Timberland Property Index, meanwhile, rose at an annualized rate of 15.09 percent from its inception in 1986 through the first quarter of this year, and over the last three years through the quarter it returned 14.63 percent, exceeding the 12.25 percent annualized gain of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index over the same period.Timber is also seen as a hedge against inflation and the fluctuations of most financial securities; analysts say it has a low correlation with stocks and bonds, meaning that its returns may well be rising when securities prices are falling."People are looking for that extra yield," said Maria Maslovsky, an analyst at the real estate finance group of Moody's Investors Service who has seen increased interest in alternative investments like timber in the last five years. "It will become more mainstream over time."Joel B. Shapiro, the chief executive of Timbervest, a TIMO based in Atlanta that manages more than 650,000 acres of timberland nationwide, agreed. He said that "if there ever was a true hedge-fund investment, timberland is it.""Your investment becomes more valuable even if the investments are down," he said, "because the trees themselves are growing more valuable."But getting into timberland can be expensive, at least for the average investor. While there may be some limited partnerships with minimum investments in the six-figure range, most minimums at TIMOs, which function much the way private equity funds do, start at around $1 million and rise to as much as $10 million."You can buy your own wood lot, but there are no economies of scale," said Richard N. Smith, a founder of Hancock Timber Resource and now the president of Forest Systems, a  company in North Easton, Mass., that provides consulting and forest management services.For the smaller investor, Mr. Smith and others say, the most affordable option is to hold stocks of companies like Weyerhaeuser, based in Federal Way, Wash. Weyerhaeuser, through its forest products division and joint ventures, owns or manages 21.5 million acres of forests in North America, Australia, New Zealand and Uruguay.Other large publicly traded companies like International Paper and Temple-Inland have either sold or plan to sell off most of their timberland.But there are also timber REITs from which to choose. They hold portfolios of timberland and disburse most of their profits to shareholders as dividends in exchange for favorable tax treatment. In addition, Congress is considering legislation, known as the TREE Act of 2007 (short for the Timber Revitalization and Economic Enhancement Act), that would lower the tax rates on timber properties to help the industry become more globally competitive.The largest of the REITs is the Plum Creek Timber Company, which is based in Seattle and holds more than eight million acres of timberland across 18 states. The company started as a limited partnership and converted to a REIT structure in 1999.Rayonier Inc., based in Jacksonville, Fla., converted to a REIT in 2004; it owns or manages 2.5 million timberland acres in the United States and New Zealand. The Potlatch Corporation, based in Spokane, Wash.,  switched to REIT status as of last year and has 1.5 million acres.A fourth REIT, the Longview Fibre Company of Longview, Wash., agreed in February to be acquired by Brookfield Asset Management of Toronto in a deal valued at $2.15 billion, including assumed debt. A new nontraded REIT, though, is starting: the Wells Timberland REIT, offered by the Wells Real Estate Funds.The Wells REIT, which is available through brokers and financial planners and has a minimum investment of $5,000, plans to invest in timberland properties mainly in the Great Lakes, Northeast, Northwest and Southeast regions, according to Jess Jarratt, a veteran forester and Wells's chief timberland officer. So far, he said, "there is a lot of positive buzz.""Our target investors are individuals looking for diversity in their portfolio," Mr. Jarratt said.Investors should be patient, too. The typical holding period for nonlisted funds and TIMOs is 10 years, and sometimes even longer, after which the sponsors must decide either to sell shares on a public exchange or to liquidate the properties and return the prorated proceeds to shareholders. Investors in REITs and other publicly traded companies, on the other hand, can sell their holdings at any time.For now, industry analysts say the outlook for timber is generally positive, despite the current slowdown in the housing market. "We're going to need to build new houses over time," said Steven Chercover, a vice president and senior research analyst at  D. A. Davidson & Company.Still, Christopher Wimmer, an assistant vice president at Moody's, said, "If you're in the wood products business, the slowdown in the housing industry is certainly putting some pressure on your earnings." He noted, too, that "the yield has compressed like other real estate assets."Plum Creek Timber said its first-quarter net income dropped 52 percent from the same period in 2006, reflecting softer timber markets and a drop in housing starts, while Potlatch said quarterly earnings from continuing operations plunged 92 percent from the period last year.Charles Margiotta, a senior vice president for business development at Rayonier and president of its real estate subsidiary, said his company was concerned about home sales as well, although "the timber business hasn't been affected as we expected."Strong demand for timber overseas, particularly in Asian markets like China, Japan and South Korea, has helped, he said. The company has also had steady revenue from its production of cellulose specialty products, which have a wide range of uses, from pharmaceuticals to paints to liquid-crystal display  screens.Yet the real estate that Rayonier and other companies own — with or without trees — may ultimately be the most valuable asset. "Over time that land is going to become golf courses, shopping centers or residences," Mr. Chercover said. And that, he said, would be unfortunate. "Trees are a fabulous renewable resource," he said, "and a great form of carbon sequestration," which could help counter global warming.
