MAYBE senior executives really do not have a clue.There is a "trust gap between consumers and global corporations, as well as a lack of understanding among business leaders about what consumers really expect from companies," The McKinsey Quarterly finds.For example, while 68 percent of executives said that large corporations made a "generally" or "somewhat" positive contribution to the public good, fewer than half (48 percent) of consumers agreed. The number was just 40 percent in the United States.When asked how much they trusted certain institutions to act in the best interest of society, European and American consumers put large global corporations at "the bottom of the list — beneath nongovernmental organizations, small regional companies, the United Nations, labor unions and the media," the McKinsey consultants Sheila M. J. Bonini, Kerrin McKillop and Lenny T. Mendonca wrote.The worldwide survey of 4,238 global business executives and 4,063 consumers also showed that "executives have only a limited understanding of what issues are in the minds of consumers."When asked what three concerns would be most important to them over the next five years, "almost half of the consumers picked environmental issues, followed by pension and other retirement benefits, and health care.""Executives predicted consumers would put job losses and offshoring first, followed by privacy and data security, and the environment."WHAT, ME WORRY? One reason so many executives make so many mistakes is they are overly optimistic, Daniel Kahneman, a Nobel laureate in economic science, says."People assign much higher probability to the truth of their opinions than is warranted," Mr. Kahneman, a  Princeton professor, said. "This natural inclination to exaggerate our talents is amplified by a tendency to misperceive the causes of events. The typical pattern  is for people to take credit for positive outcomes and to attribute negative outcomes to external factors, no matter what their true cause."In an interview with Karen Christensen in Rotman Magazine, Mr. Kahneman gave a simple example. Mergers, he pointed out, tend to occur when the economy is expanding."At such times, executives can overattribute their company's strong performance to their own actions and abilities, rather than to the buoyant economy," he said. "Consequently, many M&A decisions may be the result of hubris, as the executives evaluating an acquisition candidate come to believe that with proper planning and superior management skills they could make it work. Studies of postmerger performance suggest that, on average, they are mistaken."One way managers could improve their decision-making abilities would be to analyze their mistakes systematically, but he added that was unlikely to happen. "Executives don't like to be second-guessed, and procedures that are threatening to them are not likely to be adopted," Mr. Kahneman said.NUCLEAR REDUX? We are about to see a surge in applications to build nuclear power plants, spurred both by an increasing need for energy and concerns about the pollution that current power sources produce, EnergyBiz reports. "Starting this fall, the federal government anticipates that utilities will file license applications for as many as 30 new nuclear plants, the first such proposals in three decades," Martin Rosenberg writes.In an interview that made up part of a package in the magazine, R. William Borchardt, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's director for the office of new reactors, said it would take three to four years to evaluate the applications of new plants. Construction will take an additional three to four years, which means the plants probably will not be in operation before 2015.If approved, most of the plants will be in the South. There are now 104 nuclear power plants in the United States, according to EnergyBiz.FINAL TAKE From the "sometimes being first is not a good thing" department: Psychology Today reports 56 percent of M.B.A. students cheat, versus 47 percent of graduate students in other disciplines. PAUL B. BROWNTOURISM is by some economic measures the largest business in the world. Oil companies, airlines and manufacturers of ski boots, bikinis and chocolate mints for hotel pillows all depend on its vitality. It is also an unsteady business, erected not on our material need to visit Florence or the Grand Tetons but on the illusions that lead us there, or anywhere beyond the horizon of home.Photographers are major purveyors of fantasies, realistic as well as far-fetched, and as such have been crucial to the industry's growth. Vivid as word pictures of the Great Wall of China can be, they don't wow a reader as instantly as a photograph of its pythonic length and girth can transport a viewer. Without enticing images of turquoise waters and ivory sands, the Caribbean would probably be empty of vacationers. The idea of the seaside as a happy destination, a place to shed clothes, worries and inhibitions, is a modern invention, implanted in our heads by photographs and movies. It's no coincidence that the advent of mass tourism, with Thomas Cook's tours in the 1840s, dates to the popularity of the steamship, the railroad and the camera.Explorers are glorified tourists, and those who set off in the 19th century, for noble or ignoble purposes, quickly grasped what the new technology might do for their enterprises. A photograph could first of all buttress verbal testimony that you had done what you claimed to have done, or at least that you were there. David Livingstone employed his brother Charles to take pictures on his 1858-64 journey along the Zambezi River in Africa. Their failure to bring back photographs — Charles was unqualified to handle the equipment in hellish conditions — did not help charges in newspapers of the time that the mission had been a bust.From then on, few daring treks to anywhere set off without a professional cameraman. Timothy O'Sullivan, who accompanied geologic and military surveys of the American West in the 1860s and '70s, and Andrew J. Russell, hired by the Union Pacific Railroad as it laid track across the country, were both veteran Civil War photographers. Their pictures of desert expanses in Utah and Nevada are now considered works of art, but they were made for sale to the government and the public, in various formats, to help defray the costs of what were long, expensive trips.Even when an expedition was a disaster, as happened frequently when men were racing to the poles during the early decades of the 20th century, photographs could redeem a botched effort. Frank Hurley's plates from Ernest Shackleton's ill-starred trip in 1914-16 to Antarctica on the Endurance supported accounts of the almost unbelievable hardship faced by the crew. Herbert Ponting's movies of Robert Falcon Scott's tour of the region in 1910-13 were supposed to be shown in paying venues on the explorer's triumphant return, a plan that fizzled when Scott was lost and later discovered frozen dead. This hasn't harmed appreciation for Ponting's work, which required its own brand of toughness and courage.To make an independent living, however, photographers have needed to capture dramatic views of places most of us would actually like to visit. Under the right social and political conditions these images can alter the future of the things in the picture.Yosemite Valley was crawling with prospectors and timber merchants when Carleton Watkins visited in 1859-61. It was in part his magnificent stereographs and mammoth-plate (18 by 22 inches) prints of the mountains and forests, images he later sold in his own gallery, that helped to persuade Congress in 1864 to pass legislation that preserved the area as a public trust. Yellowstone became the first national park in 1872, thanks in no small way to Thomas Moran's paintings and William Henry Jackson's photographs of the stunning scenery.The legacy of Watkins and Jackson, crystallized in the pictures and activism of Ansel Adams, illustrates the ability of photographs to idealize certain places and perhaps shelter them against development. For nature tourism to flourish, a country has to show the world it is still dotted with sanctified areas. Photographers have been essential in that movement.As cameras in the 1890s became smaller, cheaper and easier to use, photography was transformed into an amateur's medium. Kodak and other companies advertised the fact that anyone could take a decent snapshot. People recorded family excursions in tiny pictures that went into albums. Photography became a kind of diary.At the same time, the picture postcard industry took off — sales were 850 million a year by 1910 — and allowed access to an unparalleled selection of foreign views for pennies apiece. Like the explorer's more hard-fought images, these proved to friends back home that you had been somewhere. Or, even if you hadn't, by perusing a rack of postcards and buying one — a Gothic cathedral, a remote island — that was tacked above your desk or bed, they functioned as icons for dreaming.The golden age of the photo magazine (1920s to 1960s) was often as much about delivering the vicarious thrill of travel as documenting war and injustice. The great French weekly Vu, which in the late '20s had sounded the alarm about Hitler, was also packed with features about skiing and the beach. National Geographic magazine became a monthly in 1896 and specialized in pictorial reports about exotic lands..Artist photographers have more often been globe-trotting tourists than stay-at-homes. Henri Cartier-Bresson and his Leica darted around Europe, the United States and Mexico in the '30s and throughout Asia in the '50s as he went in search of the surreal in everyday life."The Americans," Robert Frank's classic 1959 book, was imagined as a lonesome highway travelogue about his adopted country. It has been said that Mr. Frank "proved you could photograph anything anywhere." Legions of ambitious photographers, from Stephen Shore to Thomas Struth, have tested themselves against this standard, taking pictures all over the place that highlight the world's strange ordinariness. These photographs were often made to combat the smoothly lovely views of places found in commercial travel magazines.The discretion of the camera in relation to the land — the fact that by taking a picture you are removing something from a scene but disturbing nothing — has appealed to artists in tune with the ecological movement. Since the '70s the British artist Hamish Fulton has walked 12,000 miles across five continents, along paths as stony as anything seen by O'Sullivan and Russell in the American West. Often the only traces of these journeys are a series of unglamorous black-and-whites, which Mr. Fulton sells to collectors and museums.More-fantastic voyages usually call for more-dramatic images. To help sell the space program to the American taxpayer, NASA shrewdly signed the infamous contract in the '60s with the foremost photography magazine of its time, Life. The trippy pictures of astronauts floating against the blackness of the universe and standing among the wastes of the moon somehow justified the billions spent. Many of us felt we had gone into space because we followed the explorers for years on television and in Life.Richard Branson says he believes that space is the next frontier of tourism. The rare chance to view the blue marble of earth from a Virgin Galactic spacecraft will be enough, he hopes, to attract wealthy would-be astronauts for a series of suborbital flights. In a sense, the hard part of the sales pitch was already done by NASA.We know we want to go. Images of life on Mars are tumbling around in our brains. All we need now is the money.St. LouisWHAT a difference 16 years makes. Last month, the technology world was abuzz over an interview in Fortune magazine in which Bradford Smith, Microsoft's general counsel, accused users and developers of various free software products of patent infringement and demanded royalties. Indeed, in recent years, Mr. Smith has argued that patents are essential to technological breakthroughs in software.Microsoft sang a very different tune in 1991. In a memo to his senior executives, Bill Gates wrote, "If people had understood how patents would be granted when most of today's ideas were invented, and had taken out patents, the industry would be at a complete standstill today." Mr. Gates worried that "some large company will patent some obvious thing" and use the patent to "take as much of our profits as they want."Mr. Gates wrote his 1991 memo shortly after the courts began allowing patents on software in the 1980s. At the time Microsoft was a growing company challenging entrenched incumbents like I.B.M. and Novell. It had only eight patents to its name. Recognizing the threat to his company, Mr. Gates initiated an aggressive patenting program. Today Microsoft holds more than 6,000 patents.It's not surprising that Microsoft — now an entrenched incumbent — has had a change of heart. But Mr. Gates was right in 1991: patents are bad for the software industry. Nothing illustrates that better than the conflict between Verizon and Vonage.Vonage developed one of the first Internet telephone services and has attracted more than two million customers. But last year, Verizon — one of Vonage's biggest competitors — sued for patent infringement and won a verdict in its favor in March.The Gates memo predicted that a large company would "patent some obvious thing," and that's exactly what Verizon has done. Two of its patents cover the concept of translating phone numbers into Internet addresses. It is virtually impossible to create a consumer-friendly Internet telephone product without doing that. So if Verizon prevails on appeal, it will probably be able to drive Vonage out of business. Consumers will suffer from fewer choices and higher prices, and future competitors will be reluctant to enter markets dominated by patents.But don't software companies need patent protection? In fact, companies, especially those that are focused on innovation, don't: software is already protected by copyright law, and there's no reason any industry needs both types of protection. The rules of copyright are simpler and protection is available to everyone at very low cost. In contrast, the patent system is cumbersome and expensive. Applying for patents and conducting patent searches can cost tens of thousands of dollars. That is not a huge burden for large companies like Microsoft, but it can be a serious burden for the small start-up firms that produce some of the most important software innovations.Yet, as the Vonage case demonstrates, participating in the patent system is not optional. Independent invention is not a defense to patent infringement, and large software companies now hold so many patents that it is almost impossible to create useful software without infringing some of them. Therefore, the only means of self-defense is the one Mr. Gates identified 16 years ago: stockpile patents to use as bargaining chips in litigation. Vonage didn't do that, and it's now paying a very high price.Only patent lawyers benefit from this kind of arms race. And Microsoft's own history contradicts Mr. Smith's claim that patents are essential for technological breakthroughs: Microsoft produced lots of innovative software before it received its first software patent in 1988. As more and more lawsuits rock the industry, we should ask if software patents are stifling innovation. Bill Gates certainly thought so in 1991, even if he won't admit it today.WASHINGTON, June 3 — Mitt Romney owes his nearly $350 million fortune and his political career to a delicate negotiation with his boss in the summer of 1983.His boss, Bill Bain, founder of the Boston consulting firm Bain & Company, called Mr. Romney into his corner office to say that the partners had picked him to start an investment fund to cash in on the huge gains their clients were making in the stock market.To Mr. Bain's surprise, Mr. Romney, then 36, seemed wary. He worried about giving up his comfortable salary for a venture that might fail and, later, that investing would pose conflicts for a consulting firm.Mr. Bain had been determined not to cede any control of the investment fund, but over months of talks Mr. Romney persuaded him to do just that. Mr. Romney emerged as head of an independent sister company, Bain Capital. And Mr. Bain protected him financially while assuming the most risk.Two decades later, Bain Capital is one of the nation's five largest private equity firms, and Mr. Romney, who left its management eight years ago, is making his success there a cornerstone of his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.Citing his business experience, he urges voters to reject "lifetime politicians" who "have never run a corner store, let alone the largest enterprise in the world."Mr. Romney, though, never ran a corner store or a traditional business. Instead, he excelled as a deal maker, a buyer and seller of companies, a master at the art of persuasion that he demonstrated in the talks that led to the forming of Bain Capital."Mitt ran a private equity firm, not a cement company," said Eric A. Kriss, a former Bain Capital partner. "He was not a businessman in the sense of running a company," Mr. Kriss said, adding, "He was a great presenter, a great spokesman and a great salesman."Supporters of Mr. Romney argue that those skills also equip him for public office, whether as governor of Massachusetts, which he was for four years, or as president."In private equity and in consulting, a lot of what you rely on is trust and confidence and persuasion," said Mr. Kriss, who worked in Mr. Romney's cabinet when he was governor. "It is the same in the public sphere, and over many decades that is what Mitt has proven to be good at."But Mr. Romney's Bain career — a source of money and contacts that he has used to finance his Massachusetts campaigns and to leap ahead of his presidential rivals in early fund-raising — also exposes him to criticism that he enriched himself excessively, sometimes by cutting jobs to increase profits.He made his money mainly through leveraged buyouts — essentially, mortgaging companies to take them over in the hope of reselling them at big profits in just a few years. It is a bare-knuckle form of investing that is in the spotlight because of the exploding profits of buyout giants like Bain, Blackstone and the Carlyle Group. In Washington, Congress is considering ending a legal quirk that lets fund managers escape much of the income tax on their earnings."The amounts of money are so vast that it is truly a matter of time before the taxation of private equity is front and center of the public agenda," said James E. Post, a Boston University professor who teaches business-government relations. "Increasingly, this world of private equity looks like a world of robber barons, and Romney comes out of that world."Mr. Romney learned the perils of campaigning on his business career in his first run for office, when accusations that Bain Capital had fired union workers at an Indiana company it controlled derailed his effort to unseat Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Democrat, in 1994. "Basically, he cut our throats," a laid-off worker said in a commercial attacking Mr. Romney. (He has said he had nothing to do with the firings.)Mr. Romney, in an interview, acknowledged that Bain Capital's acquisitions had sometimes led to layoffs but said that he could explain them to voters."Sometimes the medicine is a little bitter but it is necessary to save the life of the patient," he said. "My job was to try and make the enterprise successful, and in my view the best security a family can have is that the business they work for is strong."Second ThoughtsBut he said he did have some second thoughts about elements of his Bain Capital career."The experience of the last eight years, running the Olympics and being a governor, would make me take an even more sensitive look at the impact of business decisions on the lives of suppliers and employees and others who are involved," he said.Mr. Romney started his early career intending to run a company, not buy and sell them. As a boy, he had accompanied his father, George W. Romney, to work as chief executive of American Motors, where he said they discussed the new models, corporate strategy and even union contract talks."He would pretend to be very interested in the things I would say," Mr. Romney recalled. (His father later became governor of Michigan and ran unsuccessfully in 1968 for the Republican presidential nomination. He died in 1995.)After graduating from Brigham Young University, Mr. Romney finished near the top of his class at Harvard Business School in 1975 with a law degree as well. He soon joined Bain & Company, a training ground for aspiring corporate chieftains. Among the consultants when he arrived were the future chief executives of American Express, eBay and Dell, for example.Mr. Romney's academic credentials were competitive with any of them, but he had something more, Mr. Bain recalled."Think of the way he looks now and picture him 30 years younger," Mr. Bain said. "He was very good looking. He was very comfortable in his body. He moved gracefully. He wasn't awkward. He had the appearance of confidence of a guy who was maybe 10 years older."Like other consulting firms, Bain coached new employees in how to impress older executives. Mr. Bain bought each consultant a copy of the best seller "Dress for Success" and provided a clothing allowance. Clients learned to expect a familiar red tie and monogrammed shirt when the next "Bainiacs" stepped off the elevator. (Most were men.)Mr. Romney seemed to have been born freshly pressed. And colleagues say he was quick to adapt to each client, an essential skill.By around 1981, however, Mr. Romney was restless for a company to run. He nearly accepted a job at an electronics conglomerate in hope of eventually running one of its businesses. He stayed when Mr. Bain wrote him a check for $200,000 and promised to get him a better position, Mr. Bain said.When Mr. Bain proposed starting Bain Capital about two years later, Mr. Romney said, "I loved the idea," adding that he was cautious at first because "it is my nature to study things extensively before I jump."Lawyers advised separating the investing venture from the consulting business to avoid a conflict of interest. To ease Mr. Bain's concerns about yielding control, Mr. Romney set up a complicated partnership structure that gave Mr. Bain the right to fire him. In the early years, Bain & Company partners received a cut of Bain Capital profits, as well, although Mr. Romney later persuaded Mr. Bain to give that up.Still, Mr. Bain recalled, "all the risk and investment was basically on my side. I was clearly putting my neck on the line and the company on the line."Mr. Bain took the lead in raising money from his partners and rich friends, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the Boston real estate mogul, and Robert K. Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots football team. But he always took Mr. Romney along to help seal the deal. The younger man would stand in front of a string of skeptical multimillionaires, flipping overhead projector slides that highlighted Bain Capital's plans, honing the knack for opening wallets that would help him become the top Republican presidential fund-raiser this year.The political fund-raising "was a lot easier than raising some of the first Bain funds, I can assure you," said Mr. Kriss, the former Bain partner. "Mitt is very, very good at that, and he has done it for a long time."When Mr. Romney finally set up shop just across the hall from Bain consulting in 1984, his initial plan centered on providing venture capital — seed money — for ideas spun off by Bain consultants. The first investment, a chain of eye-surgery centers, was a modest success.A year later, Mr. Romney hit on a big winner: the office supply chain Staples. To evaluate the business plan, he insisted on reading invoices to find out what small businesses were spending on notepads, paper clips and pens — a demonstration of his devotion to data that he brings up often on the stump.But the investment was primarily a sales job. The founder of Staples, Thomas G. Stemberg, had already sold a successful grocery business. Investors were lining up to get in on his next venture. Mr. Romney's achievement was persuading Mr. Stemberg to let Bain Capital take the lead."Mitt was just really nice, humble, listened, asked questions," Mr. Stemberg said in an interview. "And he talked about how at Bain, unlike other venture capitalists, they would actually help you run the business."On the campaign trail, Mr. Romney still calls Bain a "venture capital" firm, a phrase that evokes innovation and entrepreneurship. But his former colleagues say Bain Capital's partners increasingly put money into the relatively new business of leveraged buyouts, which involves taking over companies with a relatively small down payment by borrowing against their assets to pay most of the purchase price.About half of Bain's deals were buyouts by the close of its first fund and as much as 90 percent by the end of the second, Mr. Romney's former colleagues said.A Profitable ApproachLeveraged buyouts are often associated with hostile takeovers to break up companies. But under Mr. Romney, Bain Capital took a smoother approach. It presented itself to corporate management teams as a partner that would help improve performance, sometimes by investing to buy smaller competitors. Its first move was usually trying to persuade management to let Bain take over.In "Turnaround" (Regnery, 2004), his memoir of running the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City, Mr. Romney wrote of his Bain career: "We had to sell business owners on why they should sell their business to us. We had to sell banks to lend us money, and we had to sell folks on giving us their money to manage." Selling "is far from my favorite thing," he wrote, but it was crucial to his career.Bain invested in more than 150 companies under Mr. Romney. Most were in industries like oil drilling or medical waste, but the firm also acquired household names like Dominos Pizza, Brookstone stores, Mattress Discounters and Artisan Entertainment (in time to cash on its "Blair Witch Project" hit).By the time Mr. Romney left the firm in 1999, the investments it had sold off  had made enough money to deliver  an average annual return that amounted to as much as 100 percent before fees, several of its investors said. (Later sales were less lucrative, the investors said.)By then, the firm had expanded to 18 partners from 5, with $4 billion under management and 115 employees. (A spokesman for Bain Capital declined to comment on its profits.)Its investors did very well, but not as well as Mr. Romney and the Bain Capital managers. Private equity firms typically keep 2 percent of the total invested in each fund as well as 20 percent of any profits.Bain was hardly the only private equity firm delivering breathtaking returns in the early years, when there was little competition in the business and the stock market was soaring. But even among its peers, Bain's results were so remarkable that by 1998 Mr. Romney had persuaded investors to let the Bain partners keep 30 percent of the profits — an arrangement that is still rare."Mitt broke the mold there," said William F. Weld, another former Republican governor of Massachusetts and private equity fund manager."The private equity business is a pretty good place to make a lot of money," Mr. Weld added. "The market rewards people who show they can see value in a company quickly, adjust a few toggle switches and sell it again four or five years later. It is capitalism's way of picking the fleas off the dog."Such astounding profits brought critics as well. Warren E. Buffett, the legendary investor, has derided private equity firms as "deal flippers" who do little to increase the real value of their targets, profiting from rising prices driven in part by their own deals and by charging their acquisitions "fees, fees, fees."Others complain that private equity fund managers like Mr. Romney pay only capital gains taxes instead of income taxes on their cuts of investors' profits. At present tax rates, that means that they pay 15 percent instead of 35 percent on most of their earnings."When you look at the amount of money these guys are making," said Victor Fleischer, a legal scholar who has consulted with the Senate Finance Committee about changing the law, "the effective tax rate is just sort of shocking to the conscience."Anticipating CriticismMeanwhile, Democrats and labor unions are stepping up charges that Bain and other buyout firms profit at the expense of workers. Two Bain deals have become particular targets of criticism.One transaction, involving the medical diagnostics company Dade Behring, took place in 1999 as Mr. Romney was leaving the firm, and the other, involving KB Toys, occurred about two years later. Bain and its co-investors extracted special payments of over $100 million from each company, enabling Bain to make a healthy profit even before re-selling the businesses — a practice known as "getting back your bait." Lenders say Bain is one of the firms that has taken the most in such payments, which companies usually make by taking on additional debt.Both Dade Behring and KB Toys soon suffered dips in their business. Unable to meet the burden of their debts, each filed for bankruptcy and laid off thousands of workers. Bain Capital spokesmen have said the company did nothing improper.Mr. Romney, who remains an investor in Bain Capital, said he had not been involved in those decisions but acknowledged that such payments became part of the buyout business "very early on.""It is one thing that if I had a chance to go back I would be more sensitive to," Mr. Romney said. "It is always a balance. Great care has got to be taken not to take a dividend or a distribution from a company that puts that company at risk." He added that taking a big payment from a company that later failed "would make me sick, sick at heart."Mr. Romney's rivals in the Republican primary, courting business support, have shown little interest in the casualties of his Bain career. But Mr. Romney acknowledged that Democrats inevitably will. He said he felt confident he could persuade voters to see past such attacks, just as he did when he was elected governor of Massachusetts in 2002.Running Bain Capital, he said, has more in common with being a candidate, governor or even president than many people realize. The job of a chief executive also involves persuading fractious constituencies — investors, bankers and even "people who want your job" — to pull together, he said."There is a popular conception that being a C.E.O. you have no boss and that people just do what you tell them to do, like the captain of a ship," he said. "Nothing could be further from the truth."LONDON, June 6 — AstraZeneca, Britain's second-largest drug maker after GlaxoSmithKline, said on Wednesday  that its chief financial officer was leaving to join to Goldman Sachs  just months after it paid $15.2 billion to buy MedImmune.Jon Symonds, who joined Zeneca from KPMG in 1997 and was instrumental to the $30 billion merger with Astra of Sweden a year later, will step down at the end of July and join Goldman Sachs, one of AstraZeneca's corporate brokers, as a managing director in London in September.Mr. Symonds was passed over more than a year ago in a race for chief executive at AstraZeneca, which appointed David Brennan, head of the American unit, to the post instead. His departure nevertheless surprised analysts, some of whom said that whoever succeeds Mr. Symonds would face the challenge of adding products through acquisitions to help the company's pipeline while avoiding spending too much."Investors weren't happy with what they paid for MedImmune, but they need to bring more products on board," said Tim Race, a pharmaceutical analyst at ING Markets in London.The departure of  Mr. Symonds comes as AstraZeneca is trying to regain the confidence of  investors  after some setbacks with experimental medicines and a drop in its stock price. Shares fell  because of a debt rating cut in April by Fitch Ratings, related to the debt used to pay for MedImmune.Goldman Sachs, which advised MedImmune on the sale to AstraZeneca, has counted AstraZeneca among its clients for years.Mr. Symonds will join other prominent figures who have been hired by Goldman. Robert B. Zoellick, the former United States deputy  secretary of state who has been nominated as the next president of the World Bank, joined in June 2006 as chairman of its international advisers group. Peter Sutherland, chairman of BP, and Mario Monti, the former European Union antitrust commissioner, are among Goldman's senior advisers.WASHINGTON, June 5 — I. Lewis Libby Jr., the former chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney and one of the principal architects of President Bush's foreign policy, was sentenced Tuesday to 30 months in prison for lying during a C.I.A. leak investigation that became part of a fierce debate over the war in Iraq.The sentence ordered by Judge Reggie B. Walton of Federal District Court and his refusal so far to delay its enactment means that Mr. Libby may have to report to prison in about two months. That was expected to prompt Mr. Libby's supporters to accelerate their calls for Mr. Bush to grant him a pardon, although a White House spokeswoman offered a discouraging view of that possibility Tuesday.Mr. Libby, who was once one of the most powerful men in government and was heavily involved in planning both Iraq wars, stood calmly in the well of the court as Judge Walton said he appreciated his long service to the country, the record of which was put forward by his lawyers as an argument for probation and no prison time.But, the judge said, "People who occupy these types of positions, where they have the welfare and security of the nation in their hands, have a special obligation to not do anything that might create a problem."Judge Walton, who presided over the trial that ended in March with Mr. Libby's conviction on four felony counts, said the evidence was overwhelming that Mr. Libby had obstructed justice and lied to a grand jury and F.B.I. agents investigating the disclosure of the identity of a Central Intelligence Agency operative, Valerie Wilson.The sentence was several months longer than the minimum recommended by federal sentencing guidelines, based on what Judge Walton said was his agreement with prosecutors that Mr. Libby's crimes obscured an investigation into a serious matter and that his lies obliged the government to engage in a long and costly investigation that might have been avoided had he told the truth.If Mr. Libby goes to prison, he will be the first senior White House official to do so since the days of Watergate, when several of President Richard M. Nixon's top aides, including H. R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman, served prison terms.In the second setback to Mr. Libby, Judge Walton refused a request by defense lawyers to delay the sentence until Mr. Libby's appeals are exhausted. Unless the judge reverses his position, as Mr. Libby's lawyers will press for in arguments next week, or unless Mr. Bush grants a pardon, the Bureau of Prisons is expected to order Mr. Libby to report to a federal prison in the next 45 to 60 days.Mr. Bush, who learned of the sentence while traveling in Europe, expressed sympathy for Mr. Libby and his family through a spokeswoman, Dana Perino, who was accompanying the president on Air Force One from the Czech Republic to Germany. But as to the possibility of a pardon, Ms. Perino said only, "The president has not intervened so far in this or any other criminal matter, so he's going to decline to do so now as well."Several Republicans advisers close to the White House, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Tuesday that they were perplexed as to why Mr. Bush seemed reluctant to acquiesce in pardoning Mr. Libby. Mr. Bush has pardoned more than 100 people so far, but none have been prominent.An intriguing question for many is what role Mr. Cheney will play in pressing Mr. Bush to grant a pardon. In a statement, Mr. Cheney noted that Mr. Libby was appealing the verdict and said that he and his wife, Lynne, "hope that our system will return a final result consistent with what we know of this fine man."Judge Walton issued his sentence after intense arguments by both sides over the significance of Mr. Libby's crimes, and after sifting through scores of letters asking for leniency that were sent to the court by notable figures, including former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, and Paul D. Wolfowitz, who recently resigned as president of the World Bank and who is a former professor and government supervisor of Mr. Libby. Neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Cheney were among the 150 people who wrote letters of support.In addition, Mr. Libby, who did not testify in his own defense at the trial, delivered a brief statement, asking Judge Walton to "consider, along with the jury verdict, my whole life." Mr. Libby, who has continued to maintain his innocence, did not offer any words that would have hinted at an acknowledgment of wrongdoing.Mr. Libby was not charged with leaking Ms. Wilson's name, which first appeared in a column by Robert D. Novak on July 14, 2003. Mr. Novak's sources were later revealed to be Richard L. Armitage, a former deputy secretary of state, and Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's senior political adviser in the White House, neither of whom was charged with violating the law prohibiting the disclosure of the identities of C.I.A. officers.But Mr. Libby was indicted on charges of lying about his conversations with reporters about Ms. Wilson. Mr. Libby argued that the three reporters who contradicted his grand jury testimony were incorrect and that, in any event, he was too pressed by other business to remember details about any conversations concerning Ms. Wilson.A Libby defense lawyer, Theodore V. Wells Jr., asked Judge Walton to sentence Mr. Libby to probation or home confinement. He urged the judge to take account of Mr. Libby's long record as a public official, saying that was not an appeal for special treatment but for consideration of the way he had lived his life. Mr. Wells said Mr. Libby had already been punished, through "public humiliation," hate mail, the virtually certain loss of his license to practice law and the desire of some people to make him "the poster child" for all that has gone wrong with the Iraq war."He has fallen from public grace," Mr. Wells said, his voice dropping to a hush. "It is a tragic fall."Many of Mr. Libby's supporters have hoped he would remain free on bail for more than a year during any appeals. In that view, Mr. Bush might find it more palatable to issue a pardon down the road, perhaps just before leaving office.A spokeswoman for a legal defense fund on behalf of Mr. Libby would not comment Tuesday. But several of the fund's organizers have urged that Mr. Libby be pardoned if necessary to avoid a prison sentence, including Fred D. Thompson, the actor and former senator from Tennessee who has made it clear that he is likely to seek the Republican nomination for president.In court on Tuesday, the chief prosecutor, Patrick J. Fitzgerald, urged Judge Walton to issue a stiff sentence that would "send a message that the truth matters." Mr. Fitzgerald said Mr. Libby's misstatements had made it difficult for law enforcement officers to figure out the truth "in a hall of mirrors."In addition to the prison sentence, Judge Walton fined Mr. Libby $250,000. There is no parole in the federal system, but an inmate may be eligible for a reduction of up to 54 days a year for good behavior.Judge Walton, who is generally regarded as a firm, by-the-book jurist, rejected the request to delay enacting the sentence. The judge said there was no issue that Mr. Libby's lawyers could appeal that seemed to present a reasonable chance of succeeding. But he relented somewhat and said they could file briefs next week detailing their arguments that there were two reasonable grounds for appeal: that Mr. Fitzgerald's appointment as a special counsel was improper and that Judge Walton had erred in prohibiting the defense team from presenting experts on the fallibility of human memory.The only other figure from the Bush White House to have been convicted of a serious crime is David Safavian, a lower-ranking official who has been sentenced to 18 months in connection with the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal. Mr. Safavian's sentence has been stayed pending his appeal.Tatiana Lara Rosak, a daughter of Ellen and Charles J. Rosak of Sparta, N.J., was married yesterday to Craig Nils Birkelund, the son of Brit and Helmer B. Birkelund of Baldwin, N.Y. The Rev. Edward Barnett officiated at Holy Trinity Lutheran Church in Manhattan, with the Rev. Robert A. Rimbo taking part.Mrs. Birkelund, 36, is a vice president for sportswear merchandising at Polo Ralph Lauren in Manhattan. She graduated from Cornell and received an M.B.A. there. Her father retired as a captain at Delta Airlines, based at La Guardia Airport.Mr. Birkelund, 40, works with banking and financial services clients in the Manhattan office of Infosys Technologies, an information technology and consulting business in India. He graduated from Skidmore and received an M.B.A. from the London Business School. His mother is a manager in the cargo division of Air China at John F. Kennedy Airport, and his father retired as a carpenter at Queens Hospital Center in Jamaica.Tatiana Lara Rosak, a daughter of Ellen and Charles J. Rosak of Sparta, N.J., was married yesterday to Craig Nils Birkelund, the son of Brit and Helmer B. Birkelund of Baldwin, N.Y. The Rev. Edward Barnett officiated at Holy Trinity Lutheran Church in Manhattan, with the Rev. Robert A. Rimbo taking part.Mrs. Birkelund, 36, is a vice president for sportswear merchandising at Polo Ralph Lauren in Manhattan. She graduated from Cornell and received an M.B.A. there. Her father retired as a captain at Delta Airlines, based at La Guardia Airport.Mr. Birkelund, 40, works with banking and financial services clients in the Manhattan office of Infosys Technologies, an information technology and consulting business in India. He graduated from Skidmore and received an M.B.A. from the London Business School. His mother is a manager in the cargo division of Air China at John F. Kennedy Airport, and his father retired as a carpenter at Queens Hospital Center in Jamaica.Meredith Moss Quinn, a daughter of Teresa St. Clair of London and John B. Quinn of Pasadena, Calif., was married yesterday afternoon to Jason Milton Whaley, the son of Fran and Gary Whaley of Durham, N.C. The Rev. Haywood Holderness, a Presbyterian minister,  officiated at Villa del Sol d'Oro, an event space in Sierra Madre, Calif.The bride, 30, will continue to use her name professionally. She works as  a project manager for  Ithaka, a nonprofit organization in New York that advises other nonprofits on strategies for financing and managing growth. She graduated summa cum laude from Harvard and has an M.B.A. degree  from Stanford. She is the stepdaughter of M. Shannon Quinn.The bridegroom, also 30, is an independent business and technology consultant in New York for financial services and media companies. He graduated magna cum laude from Dartmouth.Victoria Odette Hays, a daughter of Odette and Spencer B. Hays of New York, was married yesterday to Dr. Michael Adam Feuerstein, a son of Deborah and Richard Feuerstein of Scarsdale, N.Y. Cantor Henry Weintraub performed the ceremony at the Point O' Woods Yacht Squadron on Fire Island in New York , with the Right Rev. John S. Spong, the former bishop of the Episcopal diocese of Newark, taking part.The couple met at Hamilton College, from which they graduated.Ms. Hays, 27, is keeping her name. She was until last week an associate teacher in the first grade at the Chapin School in New York. She received a master's degree in education from New York University. Her father retired as a senior vice president and a deputy general counsel at Time Warner, the media business in New York.Dr. Feuerstein, also 27, is to become in intern in general surgery at Albany Medical Center, where he is to begin a residency program in urology, in July. He received his medical degree last month from Albany Medical College. His mother is a certified public accountant in private practice in New York. His father retired as an earth science teacher at Museum School 25 in Yonkers and now owns All Star Photography in Scarsdale.
