S.E.C. NOMINEES President Bush will nominate two Democrats to join the all-Republican Securities and Exchange Commission, an administration official said Friday.Mr. Bush will name Elisse B. Walter, a brokerage regulator, and Luis A. Aguilar, a securities lawyer, to succeed the former Democratic commissioners, Annette Nazareth and Roel Campos, both of whom stepped down in the last seven months. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) CAPITAL REQUIRED Fremont General, the former subprime lender that raised doubt about its survival this month, faces a 60-day deadline from regulators to get new funds for the company's bank or find a buyer.The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation called Fremont Investment and Loan undercapitalized and ordered management to take "prompt corrective action," the company said Friday. The F.D.I.C capped interest rates Fremont can pay customers and banned raises or bonuses to officers and directors. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)LOSS AT HOME BUILDER KB Home, one of the nation's biggest residential home builders, said on Friday that it posted a loss of more than $268 million in the fiscal first quarter as weak home sales amid a worsening housing market forced the company to take a large write-down related to falling home prices. For the quarter ended Feb. 29, the company posted a loss of $268.2 million, or $3.47 a share, in contrast to a profit of $27.6 million, or 34 cents a share, a year earlier. (AP)U.A.W. NUMBERS United Automobile Workers union membership has fallen below 500,000 for the first time since World War II, reflecting the huge restructuring undertaken by Detroit's automakers. The union reported Friday in a filing with the Labor Department that it had 464,910 members by the end of 2007, compared with 538,448 at the end of 2006. U.A.W. membership peaked in 1979 at 1.5 million but has been dropping ever since. (AP) HIRE AT CITIGROUP Citigroup hired Terri Dial from the Lloyds TSB Group to lead the bank's American consumer unit and replaced the co-heads of prime brokerage, extending a management shakeup after Vikram S. Pandit's appointment as chief executive officer.Ms. Dial, left, 58, has overseen British consumer banking for Lloyds TSB, which announced her departure Friday. Nick Roe, 42, who runs Citigroup's prime brokerage in Europe, will replace the departing co-heads of the business, Ali Hackett and Tom Tesauro, according to a memo from Steve Bowman, the bank's hedge fund services chief.(BLOOMBERG NEWS)LURING AN EXECUTIVE Bank of America agreed to pay David Sambol, the chief operating officer of its takeover target, Countrywide Financial, more than its own chief executive received in 2007 to encourage him to lead the bank's consumer mortgage business.The pay, which amounts to $28 million and vests over three years, is 37 percent higher than the $20.4 million that the bank's chief, Kenneth D. Lewis was compensated in 2007. Bank of America disclosed the amount in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (REUTERS)TAKE-TWO BID Electronic Arts, the world's largest video game maker, extended its $2 billion hostile bid for Take-Two Interactive Software, pushing back the bid's expiration date by a week, to April 18. Take-Two, trying to buy time to elude the bid, earlier moved its annual shareholders' meeting to April 17. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)BIAS SUIT Morgan Stanley won a gender discrimination lawsuit filed by a former vice president, Alice S. Weiss, after a federal judge ruled she did not provide enough evidence to justify a trial.Ms. Weiss, who worked in the investment management division, contended that she was the subject of age and gender discrimination when she was fired in September 2003. In a ruling made public Friday, the judge in the case ruled in favor of Morgan Stanley, which said she was dismissed as part of a company restructuring.  (BLOOMBERG NEWS)2ND-HOME SALES DOWN Vacation home sales in the United States tumbled 31 percent last year and real estate bought for speculation dropped 18 percent as mortgage lenders tightened standards, the National Association of Realtors said Friday. Vacation home sales dropped to 740,000 from a record 1.07 million in 2006; sales of investment properties, which typically are resold without the buyers ever living in them, fell to 1.35 million, from 1.65 million a year earlier. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) LAST year was the first time that more travel was purchased online than off, Condé Nast Traveler reports. But  the convenience of doing business over the Web comes with potential problems. To avoid them, the magazine suggests these steps:¶Shop around. "Despite the many promises to the contrary, no single resource searches all airlines and hotels or always has the cheapest rates," William J. McGee writes.¶Read carefully. Some Web sites are in partnerships with various airlines, hotels or car rental companies and will list their partners' offerings first. "These rarely offer the lower price, so scroll through all the results, or sort by price, when possible."¶Move quickly. The availability of airline seats and hotel rooms "is in constant flux, so do your research quickly to avoid losing a terrific deal to someone else."But do not move too  fast. One condition of the great deal you find may  be that the purchase is nonrefundable.   "A slip of a finger on the keyboard can cost thousands," Mr. McGee says. "The three-letter airline code for Orlando is MCO; one key away is MCP, and you have just bought a round trip to Macapa, Brazil."Just as  they taught you in fourth grade, double check your work.NO RELIEF? Here is depressing news for everyone who has suffered an airline delay recently: It is bound to get worse."The International Air Transport Association projects there will be 2.75 billion air travelers in 2011," Travel and Leisure reports. That is a 29 percent increase over 2006.LEFT SEAT TIPS "A handful of business travelers fly more than airline pilots, but not many," wrote Chris Cooke, a pilot for an unnamed "major domestic carrier."In Executive Travel, he offers a variety  of travel tips that may  make life a bit  easier.One is to take advantage of the text messaging service offered by most major airlines that  tells you about the status of your flight."The last thing you to want is to show at the airport and find out you could have spent more time at home or in the meeting you had to leave early," he writes.The early warning system also gives you a chance to book another flight before others, if your flight is canceled.Finally, "if you have a large bag and are worried about lack of overhead space, be sure to request a window seat," he writes. "In an effort to speed up the boarding process, some airlines board the window seats first now."Boarding  earlier means  there will be more overhead room.FLY AWAY Real estate investors looking for alternatives to the declining housing market in the United States are turning to buying  private islands, according to a report in Outside's Go."The Caribbean, United States, Canada and Western Europe are the most popular and reliable island markets, since many Indian Ocean, South American and African locales have strict  foreign-ownership laws," the magazine writes.MONEY FUN Here, courtesy of Wired, are three interesting tidbits about  those coins and  green paper you are carrying around.First, the magazine says, "you may have enough cocaine in your wallet to attract a drug-sniffing dog." Studies show that traces of cocaine are found on the majority of  bills in the United States. "A.T.M. mechanisms," it says, "quickly spread the dust across the money supply."Second,  a dollar bill, on average, is retired from circulation after 21 months "while coins kick around for some 30 years."Third, more and more investors are trading currency instead of stocks. "Since 2004, the number of currency transactions has grown 71 percent."FINAL TAKE About 69 percent of women who responded to a Parenting magazine poll said they dreaded traveling more with their husbands than they did with their children. PAUL B. BROWN
