ONE recent afternoon as I sat discussing contemporary art in Antwerp with Sacha Eckes, an assistant at the Galerie van der Mieden — one of the newer glass, steel and concrete showcases in that chic Belgian city — a young woman interrupted us to hand out an announcement for her upcoming painting show.Her nerve was irksome but impressive, we decided after she left. Hustling artists may be a nuisance for dealers, but you can't claim to have a thriving scene without them.Given its quietly widening influence in the art and fashion worlds, Antwerp could do with a similar jolt of brassy self-promotion. Despite annually being ranked among the three largest ports in Europe (with Rotterdam and Hamburg), the city prides itself on maintaining a discreet, lowlands profile. More famous with Americans for the uncut diamonds that pass through its vaults than for any other cultural artifact, Antwerp has an abundance of art treasures, both trend-setting and classic, that deserve to shine as brightly.Belgium has given birth to a host of singular 20th-century artists — René Magritte and Marcel Broodthaers, for starters — and notable living figures are no less plentiful. The contemporary art world is certainly aware of Antwerp and becoming more so every year. The scene may be smaller than most art hubs — about 30 commercial and alternative spaces are listed in the Kunsthart gallery guide — but the number of big-name artists who began their careers exhibiting in this city of fewer than half a million residents is startling.Zeno X Gallery, which helped to launch the painters Luc Tuymans and Marlene Dumas, among others, and the Stella Lohaus Gallery, another place for daring work (especially sculpture), are perennials at international fairs like Art Basel and the Armory Show. This spring, New York's galleries and museums were crowded with work by Belgian-born artists: Mr. Tuymans's fuzzy paintings on Walt Disney themes at the David Zwirner Gallery; Dirk Braekman's hermetic photographs of shadowy interiors at the Robert Miller Gallery; Francis Alys's collection of paintings  depicting St. Fabiola at the Hispanic Society of America; and Jan De Cock's deconstruction of modernist geometry at the Museum of Modern Art.The vibrancy is evident in Antwerp every six weeks when the parking field near the quays overflows, as hundreds of visitors, in cars with license plates from as far away as Cologne and Paris, stream into the city for coordinated Thursday night gallery and museum openings. Taking place through June and then starting up again in September — the next is scheduled for May 8 — they attract young visitors who come for the art, the chance to network, to shop at the boutiques devoted to the heady and high-priced fashions of Ann Demeulemeester and Dries Van Noten, and of course to down Belgian beer."If you live in a small country, you have lots of neighbors," says Stella Lohaus, the gallery owner. "Everything is very near."Ms. Lohaus is a 39-year-old second-generation dealer. (Her parents ran the legendary Wide White Space in Antwerp from 1966-76.) In business since 1997, her gallery(Vlaamse Kaai 47; 32-3-248-0871; www.stellalohausgallery.com) is tiny, and entering it is like stepping into a white basement kitchen painted by Pieter de Hooch.As at Zeno X (Leopold De Waelplaats 16; 32-3-216-1626; www.zeno-x.com), which has fireplaces and multiple levels, an atmosphere of domestic ease helps to set off the uneasy work Ms. Lohaus favors. Through May 3, she is exhibiting Diango Hernández, who brings a Cuban sensibility to his elegant installations about freedom.Many of the galleries are clustered in a southern area of the city called Het Zuid, within a few blocks of the Schelde River and between two quite different art institutions. The larger of them is the Royal Museum of Fine Arts (Leopold de Waelplaats; 32-3-238-7809; www.kmska.be), with its outstanding collection of medieval, Old Masters and modern paintings and sculptures.Antwerp's glory years were the 16th and 17th centuries, when it ranked among the wealthiest dominions in Europe and nurtured the finest artistic talent money could buy. Indeed, you don't know Peter Paul Rubens until you've visited Antwerp. His bearded visage hangs from banners everywhere, and his paintings are almost as ubiquitous.The Royal Museum has rooms of his masterworks, including "Adoration of the Magi" and the enigmatic "Venus Frigida," which portrays a curled-up goddess and Cupid suffering from the chills. His "Raising of the Cross" and "Descent From the Cross" in the cavernous Onze-Lieve-Vrouwekathedraal (Cathedral of Our Lady) rank among the greatest of Baroque paintings.The other main institutional arm is the Contemporary Art Museum (Leuvenstraat 32;32-3-260-9999; www.muhka.be). Founded in 1987, it puts on challenging shows of post-1970 works;  when I visited, a floor was devoted to the many artists inspired by "Santhal Family," a 1938 modernist landmark by the Indian artist Ramkinkar Baij.This is not a place that tries to teach. You're on your own to make sense of art in all its incarnations. The American Gordon Matta-Clark, who in the 1960s and '70s practiced his art by cutting apart buildings, is a founding spirit. Photographs of his "Office Baroque," a 1977 dissection of a five-story Antwerp building, are in the lobby.Many comfortable restaurants and bars abound in this area. Brasserie den Artist (across from the Royal Museum at Museumstraat 45; 32-3-238-0995), all dark wood and enormous windows, serves hearty Flemish specialties like peasant omelets and that national favorite stoemp (mashed potatoes mixed with vegetables).Lighter meals can be taken at the Fiskebar (Marnixplaats 12113; 32-3-257-1357), a fish and wine bistro. L'Entrepot du Congo (Vlaamse Kaai 42; 32-3-238-9232) is a beloved smoky bar that serves simple food and many kinds of beer to students, writers, artists, businessmen and foreign passersby.Galleries have also begun to take root in areas where rents are cheaper and rooms more voluminous. Zeno X Storage (Appelstraat 37; 32-3-216-1626) is a space  in the Borgerhout area for work too large to display in Zeno X.And a new alternative space called PocketRoom in the northern quarter (Hofstraat 2; 32-3-232-3511; www.pocketroom.be) is attracting attention for its experimental program spotlighting young and mid-career Belgian artists like Guy Rombouts.Its popular Sunday openings are intended as much for local families as for inveterate gallerygoers. The foundation for Antwerp's contemporary art success may be its wide democratic base of collectors, renowned for being open-minded, loyal and, above all, unpretentious."Everything is low profile in Belgium," says Roger Szmulewicz, owner of Fifty One (Zirkstraat 20; 32-3-289-8458; www.gallery51.com), a gallery for fine art photography around the corner from PocketRoom. "If Ann Demeulemeester comes to an opening, she doesn't change the temperature in the room. Paparazzi don't exist here for that kind of thing."An art world that's primarily about art? What a refreshing concept.Theater depends on closed doors that burst open at the worst possible moments. In her play "The Scene," at Hartford Stage, Theresa Rebeck demonstrates, painfully and hilariously, that you can get both drama and comedy from the unlatching of a single door.The door is the entry to an upscale Manhattan apartment cleverly dropped by the set designer, Kris Stone, in front of looming, glittering skyscrapers. And as soon as the Act 2 lights come up on a putatively happily married man engaged in multiple instances of vigorous copulation in the living room while his wife is supposed to be at work, we feel sure we know exactly what's coming.However, once the wife, Stella, makes the expected unexpected entrance, Ms. Rebeck departs from the standard script for these imbroglios. Yes, Stella says the usual things other surprised wives say when they walk in on their husbands in flagrante; and the husband, Charlie, stammers out the typical responses. But Clea, the very young, very blonde, very attractive ditz he's unaccountably brought home, refuses to recognize that she's in the middle of a classic scene and that it has its rules. "This is horrible," she concedes. "But there's no reason to get all, like, rude."Played with delicious comic overstatement by Christy McIntosh, Clea is just bristling with injured dignity, compromising positions notwithstanding. When Charlie tells her to butt out, she pays not the slightest attention. In fact, she says, the mess is all Stella's fault: "Things were fine until she showed up."Ms. Rebeck's writing is often described as "sharp," and Clea's seemingly addlepated decision to hold her ground in that living room is a perfect example of why. Even though it's evident Clea should be leaving Charlie and Stella to sort through this disaster on their own, it's equally obvious that she's describing the bare facts of the situation with some accuracy. It's the jab of truth that gives this play both its barbed quality and its humor.If Ms. Rebeck can make adultery hideous and hilarious at the same time, think what she can do with the far riper subject matter provided by television. Stella, played with crisp authority by Henny Russell, is a talent booker on a talk show  — a job that leaves her railing at the end of each day about star-hungry television producers and ego-tripping stars. Charlie, in the sweetly hangdog person of Matthew Arkin, is an unemployed actor  — which leaves him, at the end of each day, smarting about the deeply humiliating, utterly unnatural acts of self-subjugation required if he is to find work.Clea, however, has been molded by television and the very vapidities that drive Charlie and Stella up the wall. In her rollicking but very astute performance, Ms. McIntosh gives Clea steamroller sex appeal combined with a vacant affability; imagine the offspring of Samantha Jones and Mr. Rogers.  Not surprisingly, a job in television is Clea's dream, the reason she's left Ohio for  New York. She knows the brass ring will eventually come her way if she keeps wangling invitations to the right parties and networking with the right people — O.K., the right men.Stella, Charlie, Clea and their handy friend Lewis (nicely played by Liam Craig) are the only characters we meet in "The Scene." But Ms. Stone's magically shifting set and Miranda Hoffman's varied costumes make us feel as though we, too, have been traipsing through the crowded lofts and packed apartments of Manhattan, slugging down vodkas and making connections.Having lived in New York and worked in television, Ms. Rebeck has probably been to those parties and seen her share of Cleas in action. But Jeremy B. Cohen, Hartford's associate artistic director,  has opted for overt theatricality rather than realism in this production, a joint effort with the George Street Playhouse in New Jersey. He underlines the comedy rather than the rue, and punctuates the scene changes with surges of sound (by Lindsay Jones) and light (by Robert Wierzel) that put the play's events in bright quotation marks. So when "The Scene" comes to its devastatingly harsh conclusion, we're as stunned as Charlie is. He gets his comeuppance, fittingly, with the sound of a door slamming shut. Theater depends on those, too.Longtime readers of People magazine may have seen a familiar byline recently: Richard B. Stolley, the magazine's former editor, who ran the place from 1974, when it was founded, until 1982, when he was promoted to an even bigger job.But Mr. Stolley has not been writing big cover articles or interviewing heads of state. He has contributed a few short features —  a profile of a young man who founded an HIV awareness group, an interview with the former C.I.A. officer Valerie Plame."I don't have to interview the head of state to enjoy what I'm doing — I've done that," Mr. Stolley said in an interview from his home in Santa Fe, N.M. "Reporting, to me, and the writing, in particular, is a joy in itself."Mr. Stolley retired 15 years ago as editorial director of Time Inc. magazines. Three years ago, he moved to Santa Fe and began pitching story ideas. "I think this is true of anyone in our business; your antennae are always up."The journalism that Mr. Stolley, 79, has been practicing falls outside the consulting contract he has had with Time Inc., a division of Time Warner, since his retirement. He says life in Santa Fe has prompted him to pick up the local news beat, where most of the articles are centered.Mr. Stolley also writes a column for santafe.com, but he is reticent about a forthcoming article for Fortune. "I'm not sure I want to talk about it. Somebody will jump on it. It's a good story!"Mr. Stolley spent 37 years at Time Inc., including  Life magazine, where he rose to managing editor. A career triumph was being the first reporter to contact Abraham Zapruder, the bystander who filmed the assassination of President Kennedy, and negotiating the acquisition of his film for Life for $150,000 on the day after the shooting.Larry Hackett, editor of People, said he was glad to have Mr. Stolley's articles. "Who knows the DNA of this magazine better than the man who started it?"Mr. Stolley said he would never try to pull rank  pitching story ideas. "I'm another reporter out there," he said. "If they want to do it, fine, and if for whatever reason they don't, I was an editor for too long to try and demand an explanation." LIA MILLER Rupert Murdoch is moving to tighten his already-imposing grip on American news media, striking a tentative deal to buy his third New York-based paper, Newsday, and getting his first chance to appoint the top editor of The Wall Street Journal, after the resignation of the editor on Tuesday.His $580 million bid for Newsday and his urgency in remaking The Journal worry his competitors and cause angst in many newsrooms, including his own. And both moves are vintage Rupert Murdoch, a man who operates his sprawling News Corporation like an old-style media mogul, making big bets on old and new media — bankrolling the new Fox Business Network, aggressively pursuing a deal for Yahoo, and buying Dow Jones & Company, publisher of The Journal, for far more than analysts thought it was worth. And that was just in the last year.His first love, however, remains newspapers. The purchase of Newsday from the Tribune Company would put Mr. Murdoch in control of 3 of the nation's 10 largest-circulation papers (the others being The Journal and The New York Post). Owning Newsday, which is based on Long Island, would also open an eastern front in the long-running battle for New York tabloid supremacy and, by combining some operations, could allow News Corporation to end decades of heavy losses by The Post.But the agreement is far from final as competing bidders consider their positions. Mortimer B. Zuckerman, owner of The Daily News, the archrival of The Post, will make a counteroffer next week, according to people involved in the bidding who would not be identified because of the confidentiality of the talks. Representatives of another bidder, the Observer Media Group, publisher of The New York Observer, plan to meet in a few days with Cablevision  —  which had dropped out of the bidding  —  to discuss a joint offer.People in both the News and Observer camps say they were shocked to learn of the handshake deal with Mr. Murdoch, first reported by The Chicago Tribune and The Journal, because they had been assured by Tribune's bankers that they had until next week to submit offers. In addition, a takeover of Newsday by News Corporation, which also owns two New York City television stations, could face trouble with regulators.Like other newspaper companies, Tribune has suffered heavy losses in advertising revenue and faces nearly $1 billion a year in debt service costs, forcing it to make plans to sell the Chicago Cubs and assets like Newsday. The company took on most of its debt load last year when it went private in a deal that put Samuel Zell, who made billions in real estate, in control.News Corporation and Tribune Company declined to comment on any of the moves.The resignation of Marcus W. Brauchli from The Journal was less shocking, if only because Mr. Brauchli was appointed by the previous owners of the paper. Since he bought Dow Jones in December for $5.2 billion, Mr. Murdoch has moved swiftly to remake the stately paper, calling for shorter articles and more coverage of politics, culture and even sports  —  and fewer business articles on the front page.Mr. Brauchli's colleagues and friends say he championed some of the changes and acted as a brake on others. But they say it was increasingly clear that much of the direction was being set by Mr. Murdoch and the publisher he installed, Robert J. Thomson, who oversees news operations and has none of the usual business duties of a publisher. Editors and reporters say Mr. Brauchli's authority was being undercut, a message reinforced by plans to give Mr. Thomson an office in The Journal's main newsroom.There was particular tension lately over calls by the News Corporation team to thin the ranks of The Journal's editors, and to put short articles on the front page or the fronts of sections that would not continue on inside pages.Events leading to Mr. Brauchli's departure appear to have begun   a few weeks ago, according to other editors and reporters, around the time he went to China. They said that Mr. Thomson and others indicated they were unhappy with the pace of change.At some point, "They told him, 'We don't think this is working,' " one of them said, and Mr. Brauchli replied that in that case, he should consider leaving.Even so, the news caught most people at The Journal off guard when it broke Monday night on Time magazine's Web site, as Mr. Brauchli and Mr. Murdoch were in Washington at a dinner of the Atlantic Council of the United States. Several current and former top editors of The Journal were there, too, and learned of the resignation when their BlackBerrys began buzzing.The news cast a pall over the newsroom, where Mr. Brauchli is liked and respected, and his exit reinforces fears that The Journal is retreating from its focus on business and sophisticated, in-depth reporting."Even those of us who saw this coming were surprised it came so fast, and the people who didn't see it coming are totally floored," a reporter said. "Marcus kept pushing back, saying he would protect the culture, and now that he's gone, what's going to happen?"In a message he sent to his staff on Tuesday, Mr. Brauchli wrote, "Now that the ownership transition has taken place, I have come to believe the new owners should have a managing editor of their choosing." Dow Jones said that the resignation was effective immediately, and that Mr. Brauchli would become a consultant to News Corporation.To quell major shareholders during the negotiations for Dow Jones last year, Mr. Murdoch agreed to restrictions on his ability to fire the managing editor, who would have complete control of the news operation, and an oversight committee was formed to police the agreement.Mr. Murdoch called each of the five committee members on Monday to tell them of Mr. Brauchli's impending departure, according to people at News Corporation. The committee met by conference call on Tuesday for 90 minutes, and at the outset Mr. Brauchli joined the call and stressed that the resignation was his own decision and was not a reaction to editorial interference.The committee members, who are paid $100,000 a year, are Susan M. Phillips, the dean of the business school at George Washington University; Thomas Bray, former editorial page editor of The Detroit News; Louis Boccardi, former chief executive of The Associated Press; Nicholas Negroponte, founder of the nonprofit association One Laptop Per Child; and Jack Fuller, a former president of the Tribune Publishing Company.Despite the attention on The Journal, Mr. Murdoch already has his sights set on the next conquest. News Corporation officials stressed he is vying for Newsday to support The Post, which loses about $50 million a year.Each bidder could save millions of dollars a year on back-office operations through a merger with Newsday. And people familiar with all three bidders' plans say part of the appeal is the ability to merge some or all of their printing operations.Ad buyers said they were not sure how a union of Newsday and The Post would affect them.Roberta Garfinkle, senior vice president and director for print strategy at TargetCast TCM in New York, was skeptical about joint sales attracting advertisers to The Post. "I either want to buy The Post or I don't," she said. "Selling it in combination with Newsday is not going to change my mind." Tom Stolfi, corporate media director at KSL Media, said he feared that so much concentration of available ad space could lead to higher prices. "Advertisers that want to dominate Nassau and Suffolk absolutely need Newsday," he said, referring to the Long Island counties.Newsday, a tabloid with weekday circulation of 387,000, is the sole newspaper based in its market. Despite falling revenue, it generates a healthy profit, with earnings (before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) last year of $80 million on $500 million in revenue, according to people briefed on its finances.But the paper's prominence has faded since the days when its Long Island circulation topped 500,000 and it published a popular New York City edition. Since its former parent company, Times Mirror, was bought by Tribune in 2000, the paper has registered sharp losses in circulation, deep staff cuts and a scandal over falsified circulation figures."We'd appreciate anybody coming in here that has a newspaper background, that knows New York, whether it's Zuckerman or Murdoch or anybody, to put this paper back on track," said Dennis Grabhorn, president of Local 406 of the Graphic Communications Conference, the union that represents more than half of Newsday's employees.Elizabeth Lauren Richards and Ethan Barclay Bing were married on Saturday at the Tucker's Point Club in Tucker's Town,  Bermuda. The Rev. T. Alan W. Garrity, a minister of the Church of Scotland, officiated.Mrs. Bing, 27,  is an associate in the San Francisco office of Kirkland & Ellis, the Chicago law firm; she specializes in corporate litigation. She graduated from Cornell and received her law degree from the University of California, Berkeley.She is the daughter of Katherine Richards and W. Roderick  Richards of New York. The bride's father is a senior vice president of American Express in New York, where he manages projects within the corporate development group. Her mother has written two novels, "The Silk Palace" and "The Pomegranate Garden," that were published in German by Fischer Verlag.Mr. Bing, 33, is a vice president for investments and acquisitions at Embarcadero Capital Partners, a real estate investment and management firm in Belmont, Calif. He graduated from Princeton and received an M.B.A. from Stanford.He is a son of Karen E. Mattingly of Louisville, Ky., and Steve B. Bing of Leesburg, Va. The bridegroom's father is the senior vice president for video services and new business development of the National Rural Telecommunications Cooperative in Herndon, Va.WASHINGTON — President Bush chose Steven C. Preston on Friday as his new housing secretary, praising him as a "consensus builder" and "a reformer who would act aggressively" to help families facing foreclosure to stay in their homes.But several lawmakers and housing advocates said they remained uncertain whether Mr. Preston, 47, who currently heads the Small Business Administration, would push the federal housing agency to embrace a more assertive role in the nation's housing crisis or would instead serve as merely a caretaker in the waning months of the Bush administration.Mr. Preston would certainly inherit significant challenges as the head of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which has come to new prominence recently in the administration's effort to help staunch the flood of foreclosures across the country.The Federal Housing Administration, the branch of HUD that officials are asking to help hundreds of thousands of vulnerable homeowners refinance to stable, government-backed loans, is on the brink of insolvency. Democrats and some Republicans argue  that the department's budget for public and low income housing is inadequate.And some lawmakers, even as they welcome the change in HUD's leadership, remain skeptical that the Bush administration's approach to the flood of foreclosures is adequate to the need.Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the Banking Committee and has been strongly critical of the departing secretary, Alphonso R. Jackson, also noted that Mr. Preston would be landing in the job without any experience in housing matters."We need a strong leader at the Department of Housing and Urban Development," Mr. Dodd said. "Yet the president's choice has no apparent housing background, which raises questions."Dismissing such concerns, Mr. Bush praised Mr. Preston as a leader "who's earned the respect of Republicans and Democrats, who can get things done."Mr. Jackson, 64,  resigned in the midst of a federal investigation into whether he steered lucrative housing contracts to friends. On Friday, Mr. Bush praised him  as "a decent man, a dedicated man," who had "worked tirelessly to help America's homeowners."Bush administration officials say Mr. Preston, who won easy Senate approval for his current posting, is well positioned to succeed Mr. Jackson in handling the housing crisis, particularly given his experience in government and in the private sector.Before being named S.B.A. administrator in 2006, Mr. Preston served as executive vice president of the ServiceMaster Company, a multibillion-dollar corporation whose businesses include TruGreen ChemLawn, a lawn care company, and Terminix, a pest control company. Earlier in his career, he worked as an investment banker at Lehman Brothers.Mr. Preston said he joined the Bush administration in the first place because of his belief "in the vision of helping people reach their dreams of owning a business, owning a retirement portfolio and, of course, owning a home."As for the current problems in  housing, Mr. Preston said, "Our solutions must restore confidence in our markets while not erecting barriers to future entrepreneurs, investors and home buyers."Over the years, Mr. Preston has won praise from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle for bringing stability to the Small Business Administration, which has been devastated by budget cuts and poor performance after Hurricane Katrina. Mr. Preston made fixing the disaster loans program, which provides long-term loans to homeowners and businesses, his  priority when he took office.He also tackled an issue that had dogged the agency under previous administrators,  instances in which large companies received small-business contracts.But his tenure was not without controversy. In 2007, S.B.A. workers reported to their superiors that the agency, in an effort to speed the disaster loans process after months of criticism, made thousands of loans without following its own rules to avoid fraud.And earlier this year, Mr. Preston was sharply criticized when Democrats in Congress learned that his agency had given a $1.2 million contract to a former Bush administration official who lacked experience in helping small businesses compete for government contracts.The contract went to a company owned by Vernon B. Parker, who served as assistant secretary for civil rights in the Agriculture Department from 2003 to 2006. Mr. Preston called on the agency's inspector general to investigate.On Friday, Mr. Preston began reaching out to housing advocates, making telephone calls to introduce himself."He has a reputation as a good manager and that's certainly what HUD needs at this point," said Sheila Crowley of the Low Income Housing Coalition, who received  a call. "But there is not a lot of time, and there are a lot of problems at the agency."Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a member of the Banking Committee, said he was hopeful that Mr. Preston was up to the job."The No. 1 criteria for this job is strength and independence to persuade the administration that more government involvement is needed on the housing crisis and the economy," Mr. Schumer said. "It remains to be seen whether Mr. Preston has these qualities."
