You know you need a pitch, a short explanation about what your company does, that you can deliver in the length of an elevator ride you share with a potential prospect.But the odds are even if you have one it is (a) too long, and (b) not properly focused. That is the takeaway message from an article in Inc.  magazine.Paradoxically, for an article on a topic about how to focus, the magazine piece — done as a screenplay for no apparent reason — rambles. But it does make four solid points.¶The pitch must be focused on what you can do for a customer, not on how wonderful your firm is.¶It needs to be internalized companywide. Every employee needs to give the same explanation when asked by a prospective prospect what it is your firm does.¶The message needs to be painfully clear. The potential customer must be able to "get it" immediately. And¶Short. Aim for 15 seconds (or less.)WHAT DO THEY THINK? You can conduct extensive, expense market research into what your customers think. And Gail Goodman, chief executive of Constant Contact, which offers e-mail marketing and survey products, will be happy to help you, if that is the route you want to go.But Ms. Goodman believes you can get a pretty good initial handle on how they feel about you by asking these seven simple questions:1. How would you rate your overall satisfaction with us?Very satisfiedSatisfiedNeutralDissatisfiedVery dissatisfied2. How likely are you to recommend our products or service to others?Very likelyLikelyNeutralUnlikelyVery unlikely3. When was the last time you purchased a product or service from us?Within the last monthBetween one month and 3 monthsBetween 3 and 6 monthsBetween 6 months and one yearMore than one yearNever4. Please rate us on the following:(Excellent, Good, Fair, Poor)Customer service/supportQuality of products/serviceSales staffPrice/value5. How likely are you to continue doing business with us?Very likelyLikelyNeutralUnlikelyVery unlikely6. How long have you used our products/service?Fewer than 6 monthsBetween 6 months and 1 yearBetween one year and 3 yearsBetween 3 and 5 yearsMore than 5 yearsHave not used7. Please suggest how we can improve our products or services to better serve you.HOW MUCH? Want to know the going rate for employees like yours? One incredibly easy way to find out is to visit www.payscale.com, which says it owns "the largest database of online employee salary data in the world."The way it gathers information is simple and ingenious. In exchange for a report detailing how his or her compensation compares with others in the market, people are asked to submit detailed, anonymous information about their jobs and workplaces.You probably want to check out the site, if for no other reason than your employees probably are.VIVE LA DIFFÉRENCE! Among business owners, more women (90 percent) than men (84 percent) use the Internet for work.Women who run their own companies (66 percent) are more optimistic about the economy in coming months than their male counterparts (59 percent) and fewer women (65 percent vs. 73 percent) say they make sacrifices in their personal life in order to run a business.Here's our favorite question from the survey, conducted by the American Express Small Business Monitor, which talked to a nationally representative sample of 626 small-business owners and managers of companies with fewer than 100 employees.When asked whether being an entrepreneur contributes to a "happy relationship" with their significant other, some 85 percent of women said yes, compared with 77 percent of male small-business owners.LAST CALL You are not alone. That is the takeaway message from an article in Money magazine.Some 672,000 small businesses were created in 2005, the latest figures available from the Small Business Administration, and more on the way."In a Yahoo Small Business and Harris Interactive Poll of adult Americans, two-thirds of respondents said they had considered starting their own business someday," according to the article. Nearly 40 of them said that "someday" would be within the next five years.Of course, just because you start a business does not mean it will succeed. Some 544,000 small businesses closed their doors in 2005.WOULD corporate boards perform better if their members were subjected to coaching and continuous reviews, just like everyone else in the company?Intuitively, the answer would seem to be yes. And although as HR magazine notes "only 15 percent of companies conducted individual board member reviews last year," the magazine expects the number to rise as scrutiny of board performance increases."In the wake of corporate scandals, such as those at Enron, and following enactment of laws such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, companies have been striving to demonstrate the reliability of their corporate governance procedures," Kathryn Tyler writes.For proof she notes in 2003 that only 18 percent of companies did complete board reviews. By last year, "that number had jumped to 68 percent."Individual evaluation of board members would seem the next natural step, she writes.The question, of course, is who is going to tell a director his  performance needs to improve, especially since directors could, in theory, have the corporate employee delivering the news fired. (It would be the most obvious case of "shooting the messenger.")The logical people to deliver the assessments would either be outside consultants, or fellow board members, Ms. Tyler concludes.GOOD RIDDANCE Are corporate boards too quick to fire the chief executive, undermining his ability to lead for the long term?It is a fair question to ask, given that boards of large corporations worldwide "are dismissing four times more C.E.O.'s today than in 1995," Chuck Lucier and Jan Dyer point out in The Harvard Business Review.But a review of the data, the strategy consultants say, shows directors are not overreacting."They are doing what they should have been doing all along: removing clearly inadequate C.E.O.'s who in years past would have been sheltered by faulty corporate governance," they write. "On average, an ousted C.E.O.'s company achieves only half the profit, cash flow, and market capitalization of a comparable company led by an effective C.E.O. for the same length of time."So, the real question to ask is not why are so many chief executives being fired, but why so few were fired before.LOW RISK Board members frequently worry out loud about the risks of being sued for their decisions, "but a careful analysis shows that the threat is vastly overblown," a Stanford law professor, Michael Klausner, writes in Directorship.In a recent study of cases going back to 1980 that he conducted with two colleagues, Mr. Klausner said he found just 13 instances in which "outside directors made out-of-pocket payments." Nearly all involved situations that can be avoided today with directors and officers insurance, reasonable coverage limits and proper board processes, he writes.WHAT IF? One way to see man's impact on the environment is to consider what would happen to the world if all the people disappeared.Scientific American does that in an interview with Alan Weisman, a University of Arizona professor who has written a book "The World Without Us," with this  premise. So what would the world be like if all of us disappeared tomorrow? According to the interview conducted by Steve Mirsky, Mr. Weisman thinks:¶Large parts of our infrastructure — streets, roads — would start to crumble almost immediately. Two days after humans disappeared, the New York City subway system would be  filled with water, since there would be no one around to  operate the pumps. Manhattan would eventually become a forested island.¶Office buildings would collapse in decades.¶Stainless steel pots could last for millennia and certain common plastics might not break down until microbes evolved to consume them.¶"Without humans, North America would probably become a giant deer habitat in the near term. As forests would become re-established larger herbivores would evolve to take advantage of all the nutrients locked up in woody species."FINAL TAKE Courtesy of Gourmet, here is a possible   reason your swimsuit does not fit: "People will eat 28.4 percent more candy if it's labeled 'low fat.' " PAUL B. BROWNI  HAVE never liked bed-and-breakfasts, which I associate with Victorian furniture, officious hosts and forced conviviality at breakfast. But with the average price of a Manhattan hotel room nearing $300, I no longer knew what to tell friends who asked where they should stay in New York City.Then I moved to Brooklyn, where I noticed that one of the brownstones down the block from my apartment — overlooking Prospect Park — contained a B & B. Surprised, I found myself searching the Internet, where I found at least 30 B & Bs, spread out over all five boroughs.Intrigued by this unexpected abundance, I set out on a reconnaissance mission  (glad that if I found myself in a place I hated, I was just a taxi ride from home).I never had to sneak out in the middle of the night. Some of the B & Bs were terrific. Only one of the four I tried was really Victorian; one was ultramodern, and the other two were simply homey. There were no officious hosts — but there were lots of helpful employees. When there was breakfast, nobody made me talk (at the communal table in the Park Slope B & B, I was  busy eating  the delicious food).Perhaps it was beginner's luck that my first stop in Manhattan was a gem: Stay the Night, occupying a town house on a gorgeous block in the East 90's. The husband-and-wife psychologists who live on the first two floors have created a hostelry upstairs. The smallest room (with a shared bath) is just $75 a night. My much larger room, with its own bath and a private roof deck overlooking a leafy backyard, was $195.The place is advertised as a non-hosted inn. (Since it doesn't serve breakfast, unless you count the packaged muffins in the room's refrigerator, it's not really a B & B, but everything else about it puts it in that category.)You're asked to arrive before 6 p.m., when an employee will still be available to admit you. (If you're late, you're charged $20 for his overtime.) Since there are no common rooms, and you drop your keys in a slot when you leave, you may never see another person. Nick Hankin, the manager, lives in Astoria, Queens, but is available by phone.In other words, it's just like living in a New York apartment. But this is an apartment in Carnegie Hill, an extraordinarily pleasant neighborhood. Sarabeth's, which serves what many consider New York's most satisfying breakfast, is just around the corner. After a perfect goat cheese and spinach omelet with a pumpkin muffin and Sarabeth's incomparable marmalade, I set out for a tour of Carnegie Hill.I lived in the neighborhood for many years, and it was a pleasure to revisit  old haunts: the Corner Bookstore; the Guggenheim; the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum; and finally Petak's, a deli that offers some of the best prepared food in the city (perfect for a picnic overlooking the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Reservoir in Central Park). Stay the Night doesn't have a lot of amenities, but given what it offers — nice accommodations in a nonpareil location — it doesn't need to.My next stop was in a less central location, but that's its draw: City Island, linked to the Bronx mainland by a bridge, resembles a slightly overcrowded New England fishing village.ONE of its most surprising establishments is Le Refuge. Occupying a mansard-roofed house, it is indeed a refuge from the huge, carnival-like seafood restaurants lining the main drag, City Island Avenue. At Le Refuge, the $45 prix fixe dinner is a taste of classic French food — I had duck à l'orange — most of it delicious (even if my crème brûlée lacked the requisite crust). My $115 room, in the back of the house, was uninspiring, as was the utilitarian bathroom down the hall. But the whole experience, including Continental breakfast in a handsome, ground-floor sitting room, offered a chance to feel as though I had been across the Atlantic Ocean.My third B & B also had a French flavor (but, again, no breakfast), thanks to Albert Delamour, who rents out two rooms on the seventh floor of a loft building in SoHo. The rooms adjoin an art gallery; Mr. Delamour said he started the B & B to subsidize that business (and his own career as a photographer). But the sideline is threatening to take over. "We get 100 calls a day," he said, "and I can't do the gallery work," explaining that he now accepts reservations only by e-mail.Staying in a gallery is fun. Less fun is trudging up seven flights of stairs. At 5:30 p.m. on weekdays, the building's manager shuts off the elevator; he's afraid of someone getting stuck, Mr. Delamour said. The night I arrived, a couple from Canada carried their baby and their luggage up the stairs.The Canadians' room was in the back of the building, but mine faced Lafayette Street. The noise of cars, trucks and even loud pedestrians didn't let up, and I couldn't fall asleep. Then I found a portable fan in the bathroom — private, but at the other end of the loft — and plugged it in next to my bed. Thanks to the white noise, I slept like a baby till morning, when the windows in my room offered terrific rooftop views (including the spires of the Empire State and Chrysler Buildings), and when the elevator, now back in operation, carried me downstairs to look for a place for breakfast.My room was $210, including tax; Mr. Delamour, who couldn't have been nicer, accepts payment by check or PayPal.Finally, it was back to my own neighborhood. There, the Bed & Breakfast on the Park normally requires at least a three-night stay, but it makes exceptions when there's a room free for one or two nights. I would have been happy with the ground-floor room, with a short walk to the private bathroom, but the only thing available  was a more expensive suite on the third floor. The suite, with deep red walls, lace on the windows and a four-poster bed draped in fake vines, was at  the back of the building, where the view from the private roof terrace stretches from the Statue of Liberty to the Empire State Building and beyond.Breakfast was served, promptly at 9 a.m., at a table that looked like it was set for a white-tie dinner, with cut-glass bowls and ornate silver. The other guests, it turned out, were couples who were visiting grown children in Park Slope and were thrilled to have a place to stay close by; they were sharing advice about the Brooklyn Museum, Green-Wood Cemetery and Coney Island.The offerings included a "baked pear pancake" with the texture of a soufflé and sourdough rolls, baked on premises, that were among the best I've ever tasted. (According to the manager, Linda Kaffke, an old Italian baker drops the dough off once a week.)True, for the price, I could have had a hotel room in Manhattan. But Manhattan doesn't have the old Italian baker, or the charms of Park Slope — or the view across the river to Manhattan.MORE INFORMATIONBED-AND-BREAKFASTS operate in all five boroughs of New York City, and many offer  inexpensive alternatives to hotels, especially for those willing to share a bathroom. They are less impersonal than hotels and have their own quirks: not all take credit cards; many have minimum stays of two or three nights but make exceptions when rooms are available; some will reduce rates for long-term stays.Below are details of the four sampled for this article. To find others, check www.lanierbb.com or simply search for "New York bed and breakfast."MANHATTANStay the Night, 18 East 93rd Street (212-722-8300; www.staythenight.com), has seven rooms with prices from $75 for a modest bedroom with shared bath to $215 for a complete apartment; costs increase around holidays. No breakfast. Nearby are Sarabeth's (1295 Madison Avenue, at 92nd Street; 212-410-7335) and Petak's Deli and Cafe (1246 Madison Avenue, at 89th Street; 212-722-7711).Room in SoHo Loft, 153 Lafayette Street, at Grand Street (www.livingwithartusa.com), has two rooms on the seventh floor, with private baths, each $180 to $220 depending on the season; there are also two rooms on the fifth floor, attached to the proprietor's apartment.  Reservations are taken  by e-mail at roominsoho@mac.com. No breakfast, but there is access to a kitchen.BROOKLYNBed & Breakfast on the Park (113 Prospect Park West; 718-499-6115; www.bbnyc.com) has seven rooms for $165 to $295 plus a 10 percent gratuity; all come with private baths and a very full breakfast.THE BRONXLe Refuge Inn Bed & Breakfast on City Island (586 City Island Avenue; 718-885-2478; www.lerefugeinn.com) has seven rooms; all are $115 single and $135 double, Continental breakfast and tax included. The prix fixe dinner is $45.A Neighborhood in Need of a NameTo the Editor:Taxicabs' maps not withstanding, the neighborhood Charles Isherwood calls the Brown Zone ("The Man Without a Country," New York Observed, July 15) isn't nameless. It's called Rose Hill, but few know it by that name.Soon after I moved into the neighborhood, I realized it needed a new, more descriptive, title. I dubbed it the Middle East Side because not only is the area located between the Upper East Side and Lower East Side, but it's also home to many restaurants — Indian, Afghan, Turkish and more — that exude aromas that originated in and around the Middle East.I offer a modest proposal: From this day forward, the region in question should be referred to as the Middle East Side. To promote this concept, the Shake Shack should immediately add falafel to its menu.Phyllis B. Grodsky Middle East Side•To the Editor:Charles Isherwood lives in Nomad, or NoMad. The felicitously nicknamed enclave north of Madison Square Park may not yet have a deli on every corner, but it boasts many other advantages. On Lexington Avenue in the 20s you can shop and eat in Little India, the food zone for discerning cabbies; go to the annual Modern Show at the armory; and improve your mind at Baruch.Mr. Isherwood is a lucky guy. And NoMad is exactly where a "man without a country" should live, isn't it?Joan WarnerEast Village•To the Editor:Charles Isherwood is not alone in his dismay with the lack of a recognizable name for the area of Manhattan between East 23rd and East 32nd Streets, from Madison Avenue east to the river. In fact, the area does have a name: Rose Hill. The name is derived from the pre-revolutionary Rose Hill farm that lasted into the 19th century, and essentially occupied the same geographic area discussed in the article.The incorporated Rose Hill Neighborhood Association, of which I am president, has lobbied since the 1990s for the area to be officially designated with the historical name. At a general meeting of Community Board 6 in 1997, C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president, supported the move to name the community, and pledged the support of her office behind the effort. Numerous merchants and apartment houses use the Rose Hill name today.So, Mr. Isherwood, our community does have an identity, but we have not yet been able to persuade the Taxi and Limousine Commission to fill in the "brown slab" located on the maps in New York's taxis with the correct name.Gerard SchriffenRose Hill No Sympathy for Box-BlockersTo the Editor:In "Think Over the Box" (Op-Ed, July 15), Ted Balaker and Sam Staley state: "Drivers aren't letting their cars sit in the cross hairs of oncoming traffic out of spite. They don't relish the cursing, honking and fist shaking aimed at them. Like everyone else in the standstill, they'd prefer to be moving."This is either far too kind or willfully ignorant.Many, if not most, drivers who block the box are selfish people who just "have" to be the last car through the green light. This is particularly true of cab drivers, delivery trucks and, sadly and most annoyingly, both city and long-distance buses.The reality is that many drivers are simply not patient enough to stop at a green light even if they see that it is unlikely that they will be able to proceed down the next block. Indeed, it is the "cursing, honking and fist shaking" of drivers behind them that "force" otherwise patient drivers to block the box even if they had no intention of doing so.Ian AltermanUpper West Side•To the Editor:Ted Balaker and Sam Staley argue that "clogged intersections represent a symptom of congestion's root cause: political neglect." That is certainly an argument that Robert Moses would embrace. But it continues the same catastrophic assumption that he made throughout his career: that unending increases in automobile traffic are not only acceptable, but also preordained."Political neglect" is not the root cause of congestion, but certainly contributes to our current inability to resolve it. No matter what you do to speed up traffic, congestion's "root" cause is still the same: too many cars.Maury SchottWest VillageIn East Harlem During the BlackoutTo the Editor:Ernesto Quiñonez's article about the 1977 blackout as he lived it in East Harlem ("The Diaper Caper and the Small-Dog Scam," July 8) called to mind my own experience of that day in that neighborhood.I was working for the city and had been detailed to go up to East Harlem to investigate the scattered reports that looting was in progress. A black city limo and driver were placed at my disposal, and we arrived on Third Avenue near 116th at about 8 o'clock the morning after the night of looting.In fact, "shoppers" were still going into and out of the stores on the block, although by then most of the merchandise was gone.A bleary-eyed police sergeant approached me, with a detail of four officers, as I got out of this black car with it red light flashing. He thought, wrongly, that I was someone important."Commissioner," he said, "we've been here since 1 a.m. We arrested a couple of guys pulling down a gate with a car, but most of the time, we've just tried to see that no one was hurt. What else could I do? What else could I do?"He was almost in tears.Now, I was a deputy director in the Economic Development Office — nowhere near anyone in his chain of command, but he needed an answer."Sergeant, you did right," I replied. I felt a like a priest giving absolution. "I'm calling downtown on the radio, and I'll tell them you guys need some relief up here."We walked around for a while, and talked about the vast difference between this blackout and the one back in 1965. I left with a series of nightmare images, and a renewed respect for the New York City cops.Monte Wasch New Lebanon, N.Y.Private Business, Public TrustTo the Editor:"Air Albany on Your Dime" (editorial, July 15) highlights a glaring problem in Albany.While Congress has taken extensive measures to make the line between government business and non-government business more transparent, Albany has taken no such steps.It is almost as if the part-time Legislature wants to comply with part-time ethics.A bright-line rule requiring a clear publicly declared demarcation between official business and political or private business is essential.Fund-raising should not be done in the Capitol, Legislative Office Building or district offices. Members and staff should reimburse the state for any other use of state resources that are used for anything other than official business. Period.Airfare should be paid for rides on state aircraft when any non-official business is conducted at the destination. Additionally, even state-issued cell phones should be used only for official business.Transparency and accountability are not that difficult to attain. The public deserves no less.Roland Nicholson Jr.Hillsdale, N.Y.The writer is former staff member of the New York State Assembly.AS  newspapers suffer from falling advertising revenue, the McClatchy Company and Dow Jones & Company yesterday became the latest companies in the industry to report sharply lower second-quarter earnings.McClatchy reported earnings of $39.9 million, or 49 cents a share, compared with  $44.1 million, or 94 cents, in the quarter a year earlier, when it was a much smaller company. The company more than doubled in size last year with the acquisition of Knight Ridder, whose papers have performed worse this year than those McClatchy held a year ago.Total second-quarter revenue was $580 million, up from $212 million.The company has a large presence in California and Florida, with The Sacramento Bee and The Miami Herald,  where the real estate market has slumped badly. That  caused a 19 percent drop from last year in revenue from real estate ads, and steep declines from related businesses like home improvement and furniture."We expect declines in this revenue category to continue because of the difficult comparisons" to a strong 2006, Gary B. Pruitt, McClatchy's chairman and chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts. "We expect no substantial improvement in advertising trends before the fourth quarter."Analysts have warned that newspapers appear to be going through a fundamental change, with advertising shrinking fast despite a growing economy, as readers and advertisers migrate to the Web.Shares of McClatchy rose 13 cents, to $26.41.Dow Jones reported earnings just over $21 million, or 25 cents a share, down 26.8 percent from $28.8 million, or 34 cents, in the quarter a year earlier. That figure included two extraordinary items: a charge for stock-related  compensation expenses because of the News Corporation takeover offer and another for the reorganization of the consumer media unit.Excluding those items, the company's earnings were 45 cents a share, in line with analysts' expectations.Shares of Dow Jones closed down 25 cents yesterday at $55.40.Total revenue rose to $529.7 million,  from $456 million on stronger income from circulation, especially from online subscriptions.But ad revenue at Dow Jones was down 2.8 percent, and looking ahead, Richard F. Zannino, the chief executive,  told analysts yesterday, "July will be soft."The Wall Street Journal, which makes up a large part of the company, continued to be hit hard by falling business-to-business technology advertising. Print ad revenue at The Journal in the United States fell 6.8 percent for the quarter."Essentially the whole of the decrease came from three advertisers: Cisco, Apple and I.B.M.," said L. Gordon Crovitz, publisher of The Journal, of online technology advertising.Perhaps more worrisome was the ad picture at The Journal online, which had regularly experienced double-digit jumps in past quarters. This quarter, ad revenue rose just 2.7 percent.But some smaller Dow Jones properties are having a banner year, like Barron's, where ad revenue rose 26.3 percent, and The Journal's overseas editions, up 40.9 percent.The Journal added a Saturday paper in 2005, with the expectation that it would lose money in its first years. Yesterday, Mr. Zannino said the Saturday issue is "tracking a little bit behind plan," but that he is pleased with how it has drawn consumer advertising.Despite significant cost-cutting, both Dow Jones and McClatchy have experienced shrinking  profit margins, to the mid-single digits for the first half of the year. Mr. Pruitt said his company had cut expenses by almost $60 million for the quarter, or 12 percent, more than half of that from consolidation with Knight Ridder operations.The Rich and Income TaxesTo the Editor:Claims like mine that middle-income workers now pay a larger share of their incomes than people at or near the top "don't hold up under close examination," says N. Gregory Mankiw in "Fair Taxes? Depends on What You Mean by Fair" (Economic View, July 15).His column relies on a study by the Congressional Budget Office that finds the top 1 percent paying 31.1 percent of their income in federal taxes while the middle fifth pay 13.9 percent. But three important things are not noted:First, though the column acknowledges the existence of people like Warren Buffett, who by his own affirmation pays only 17.7 percent of his income in taxes, it attributes this to the fact that his earnings are largely from dividends and capital gains, taxed at 15 percent. But isn't this also true for a large portion of the very wealthy?Second, the C.B.O. analysis assumes that corporate taxes are borne by shareholders. But shareholders don't carry all the burden. Some is passed along to consumers in higher prices and some to employees in lower wages.Finally, the column does not figure in state and local taxes, notably sales taxes and taxes on cigarettes and alcohol, both of which eat up a far higher share of the incomes of middle-class and poor families.Robert B. ReichBerkeley, Calif.,  July 15The writer, who was secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, is a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley.•To the Editor:When looking at the percentage of income that the rich pay in taxes, remember that the numbers are averages, that plenty of rich people pay much less, and that the data are based on stated income and available deductions.Hedge fund managers, for example, can often defer declaring earnings as income, allowing them to earn compound interest on what an ordinary person would have to pay in taxes, until they're ready to repatriate such funds. Similarly, those who are compensated with stock options can put off taking the money.In addition, I doubt whether many people in the bottom 20 percent of income benefit from tax breaks like the deduction of mortgage interest or business travel that's combined with a vacation. They also can't take a deeply discounted ride on the corporate jet or enjoy other perks available to the rich and superrich.Shaun BreidbartPelham, N.Y., July 17•To the Editor:In his look at current tax rates, Mr. Mankiw says: "None of these calculations, however, say whether the rich are paying their fair share. Fairness is not an economic concept. If you want to talk fairness you have to leave the department of economics and head over to philosophy."There's no question that philosophy is superior to the "dismal science" in solving human problems, but taxes are a political, not a philosophical, problem.That's why Democrats tax the rich and Republicans repeal those taxes. So what's new? Warner B. HuckHilton Head Island, S.C., July 15•To the Editor:Tax rates aren't a goal — they are a means to an end. Taxes pay for what we, through our democratic processes, decide are our national priorities.Mr. Mankiw approvingly quotes President Bush's "principle" that "no one in America should have to pay more than a third of their income to the federal government." But this formula has left the nation hopelessly in debt.The only sensible discussion to have about tax rates is to decide what we want to achieve as a nation. Then we should adjust tax rates accordinglySteven ConnYellow Springs, Ohio, July 15The writer is a professor of history at Ohio State University.The Rich and Income TaxesTo the Editor:Claims like mine that middle-income workers now pay a larger share of their incomes than people at or near the top "don't hold up under close examination," says N. Gregory Mankiw in "Fair Taxes? Depends on What You Mean by Fair" (Economic View, July 15).His column relies on a study by the Congressional Budget Office that finds the top 1 percent paying 31.1 percent of their income in federal taxes while the middle fifth pay 13.9 percent. But three important things are not noted:First, though the column acknowledges the existence of people like Warren Buffett, who by his own affirmation pays only 17.7 percent of his income in taxes, it attributes this to the fact that his earnings are largely from dividends and capital gains, taxed at 15 percent. But isn't this also true for a large portion of the very wealthy?Second, the C.B.O. analysis assumes that corporate taxes are borne by shareholders. But shareholders don't carry all the burden. Some is passed along to consumers in higher prices and some to employees in lower wages.Finally, the column does not figure in state and local taxes, notably sales taxes and taxes on cigarettes and alcohol, both of which eat up a far higher share of the incomes of middle-class and poor families.Robert B. ReichBerkeley, Calif.,  July 15The writer, who was secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, is a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley.•To the Editor:When looking at the percentage of income that the rich pay in taxes, remember that the numbers are averages, that plenty of rich people pay much less, and that the data are based on stated income and available deductions.Hedge fund managers, for example, can often defer declaring earnings as income, allowing them to earn compound interest on what an ordinary person would have to pay in taxes, until they're ready to repatriate such funds. Similarly, those who are compensated with stock options can put off taking the money.In addition, I doubt whether many people in the bottom 20 percent of income benefit from tax breaks like the deduction of mortgage interest or business travel that's combined with a vacation. They also can't take a deeply discounted ride on the corporate jet or enjoy other perks available to the rich and superrich.Shaun BreidbartPelham, N.Y., July 17•To the Editor:In his look at current tax rates, Mr. Mankiw says: "None of these calculations, however, say whether the rich are paying their fair share. Fairness is not an economic concept. If you want to talk fairness you have to leave the department of economics and head over to philosophy."There's no question that philosophy is superior to the "dismal science" in solving human problems, but taxes are a political, not a philosophical, problem.That's why Democrats tax the rich and Republicans repeal those taxes. So what's new? Warner B. HuckHilton Head Island, S.C., July 15•To the Editor:Tax rates aren't a goal — they are a means to an end. Taxes pay for what we, through our democratic processes, decide are our national priorities.Mr. Mankiw approvingly quotes President Bush's "principle" that "no one in America should have to pay more than a third of their income to the federal government." But this formula has left the nation hopelessly in debt.The only sensible discussion to have about tax rates is to decide what we want to achieve as a nation. Then we should adjust tax rates accordinglySteven ConnYellow Springs, Ohio, July 15The writer is a professor of history at Ohio State University.To the Editor:"Solar Power Captures Imagination, Not Money" ("The Energy Challenge" series, front page, July 16) reminds me of a lecture I heard in the mid-70s by Justice William O. Douglas of the Supreme Court.Douglas lamented the lack of investment in solar energy research but found it unsurprising, since "nobody owns the sun."It's unfortunate that 30 years later, nothing has changed.Jonathan D. Reichman Chappaqua, N.Y., July 17, 2007•To the Editor:While your article about solar energy correctly points out the lack of government financing, it paints an unnecessarily gloomy picture of the existing technology.Solar energy devices are 20 percent efficient and deliver 10 percent, averaged over time, of incoming solar energy as electricity. This is more than adequate to provide the world's energy.Solar is the world's fastest-growing energy source, doubling every year. Major solar installations put the electricity onto the grid, which answers the "storage problem"; it's not as if every solar device were headed for an individual rooftop.Even with today's efficiency, solar is a viable alternative, rapidly developing around the world, although not fashionable in the United States.The real practical challenge is not to increase efficiency, but to scale up the production of existing solar devices to meet the world's energy needs.Daniel B. Botkin President, Center for the Study of the Environment New York, July 16, 2007•To the Editor:As citizens of this great nation, we have two ways to show our demand for greater energy independence and clean energy: we can vote at the polls and we can vote with our dollars.There is enough clean energy from solar, wind and small hydro sources produced right now in the United States to power every professional sports stadium in the country.Utilities throughout America give homes, communities and businesses the option of buying part of their energy from these clean sources. Yet many Americans are unaware that such an option exists.The more that Americans purchase this clean energy, the more the marketplace will respond with needed investment.Brian F. Keane Washington, July 17, 2007The writer is president of SmartPower, a nonprofit marketing campaign for clean energy.•To the Editor:Though solar energy is not yet competitive against the average energy rates charged by utilities, it can be the least expensive way for utilities to serve peak power demand, which usually occurs when the sun is shining and it's hot outside.We should direct research and development spending to the policy and technical changes needed to encourage direct utility investment in solar energy. This will greatly accelerate the growth of the solar industry and drive down the cost of solar electricity.Chris Robertson Vice President Peak Sun Silicon Corporation Portland, Ore., July 17, 2007•To the Editor:Calling storage a major problem for solar energy reflects a pitifully backward attitude. Australia is already using a simple solution: consumers who use photovoltaic cells are allowed to sell electricity back to the grid.This power is used by industry and office buildings when the sun is shining, and the huge loss of energy caused by storage and retrieval is avoided. This also provides a financial incentive for people to contribute to this green energy solution.This photovoltaic rebate program could be a model for helping the United States wean itself off foreign oil and improve the environment.Giles Deshon Toronto, July 17, 2007•To the Editor:No one should be surprised by insufficient financing for solar energy: it's the one power source that truly has the capacity to undo energy profiteering.Unlike centralized solar farms, which keep users tethered to major utilities, millions upon millions of rooftop solar panels have the capacity to untether Americans from utility lines that can be taken down by nature or by terrorism.After a few years, your system will have paid for itself and, with improved efficiencies, utilities are paying you for your output. Imagine.Ken Karp Lighthouse Point, Fla., July 17, 2007•To the Editor:Re "In the Desert, Harnessing the Power of the Sun by Capturing Heat Instead of Light" (Business Day, July 17), about a solar thermal installation in Nevada:The White House keeps saying not to worry about the many future problems because technology will solve them.  Meeting energy demands and global warming are major examples. At the same time, reports stream in saying that the national commitment to science has waned and fewer students find it an attractive career path.So it does not seem surprising that the company harnessing thermal solar power in the American desert is Spanish, and that the system itself is largely German. Good old American know-how must be busy making money without all that hard science stuff.Bob Hayden  San Francisco, July 17, 2007An article on Friday about the six-nation talks aimed at disarming North Korea of its nuclear weapons misstated the name of the agency that serves as the United Nations nuclear monitor. It is the International Atomic Energy Agency, not Association. (Go to Article)A picture caption on Friday with an article about the search for victims of a Brazilian airliner crash in São Paulo misstated the circumstances of the crash. The airliner, TAM Flight 3054, skidded off a short slippery runway and hit an office building and gas station; it did not collide with another aircraft in midair. As the article noted, a Brazilian airliner collided in midair with an American corporate jet last September, killing 154. (Go to Article)An article on June 14 about the resignation of the senior instructional official in the New York City public schools misspelled the given name of a member of the New York State Board of Regents who said she was concerned about rapid turnover in this position. The regent is Merryl H. Tisch, not Meryl (Go to Article). (The error was repeated in an article on July 18 about the release of data showing how the city schools would use an influx of state money.)An article in Business Day on Saturday about efforts by Wall Street banks to reassure investors that the financial industry is strong rendered incorrectly a word in a quotation from Kenneth D. Lewis, chairman and chief executive of Bank of America, who commented on consumer spending. He said, "As long as you have employment and wages growing, you are going to have a relatively healthy consumer." He did not say "unemployment." (Go to Article)An article in Business Day on Saturday about the private library collections of several business executives referred incorrectly to the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, whose chief executive, David Leach, commented on his collection of the works of Aristotle. The accreditation council is an independent, nonprofit organization; it is no longer a division of the American Medical Association. (The two separated in 2003.) The article also included a quotation from Shelly Lazarus, chairwoman and chief executive of Ogilvy & Mather, that misstated the title of a book in her collection. It is "How Doctors Think" by Dr. Jerome Groopman — not "How to Think Like a Doctor." (Go to Article)Because of an editing error, an obituary on Friday of Kenji Miyamoto, the longtime leader of postwar Japan's Communist Party, rendered incorrectly the name of the American general in charge of the Allied occupation, who barred Mr. Miyamoto and 23 other party members from public service just before the outbreak of the Korean War. He was Gen. Douglas MacArthur; he had no middle name and did not use the initial A (or other initials often ascribed to him, including B, C and S) (Go to Article). The error most recently appeared on June 29 in an obituary of Kiichi Miyazawa, Japan's prime minister in the 1990s. Five articles in 2005 included the "A" (on May 29, June 20, June 28, July 29 and Aug. 26), and the "A" has been used in 19 other articles since 1987.The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper's journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com.
