INCREASES in the pay of corporate chief executives since 1980 have caused anger among countless employees and some shareholders.The average chief executive of a company listed on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index earned $15.06 million in 2006, according to the Corporate Library, an independent research firm. But according to an article in The American, the boss may not be overpaid.Xavier Gabaix, an associate professor of finance at New York University, points out in an interview with Laura Vanderkam that  there could be a simple explanation for what seems like excessive pay. The salary increases were almost exactly in line with the rise in  market capitalization of large corporations based in the United States over that time."The trend lines of market capitalization and executive payouts rose and dipped in near-perfect tandem," Ms. Vanderkam writes. "Indeed, C.E.O. compensation fell from 2000 to 2003 as the market tanked."As for why  the salary of the average worker has not risen much, Mr. Gabaix responds that "the median worker, sadly for him or her, just manages a very small part of the economy." The economy as a whole, he adds, "has not grown by that much — just 2.5 percent a year or so."Mr. Gabaix published his research, which was conducted with a colleague at N.Y.U., Augustin Landier, in The Quarterly Journal of Economics.WOMEN AT THE TOP In 1977, just 2.3 percent of executives in American business were women. Today, about 52 percent of all middle managers are, Harriet Rubin writes in Condé Nast Portfolio magazine.But she concludes that  the days of sexism are not over. "While women have made huge professional gains in the past three decades, progress now appears to have slowed or stalled," says Ms. Rubin, who occasionally writes for The New York Times. "In some cases, it's even backsliding. Key indicators such as pay, board seats and corporate officer posts all reflect a leveling off or drop in recent years."She points out that the number of female officers among Fortune 500 companies has declined yearly since 2005, "following substantial gains in the past decade."Last year, the number of those companies with more than three female officers fell by 31, to 203, while the number of companies with no female officers increased by 10, to 74.The situation is the same for directors. While the number of women on boards steadily rose from 1995 to 2005, it has been "essentially flat for the past three years." Last year, women held 14.8 percent of seats on the boards of Fortune 500 companies.TAX DAY "It's the day Lincoln died (1865) and Jackie Robinson broke baseball's color line (1947)," Clayton Neuman writes in Fast Company.  For most of us, though, April 15 will be tax day, the day our taxes are due. Here are some items to ponder, courtesy of the magazine:¶The United States collected about $2.5 trillion in federal taxes in the 2006 fiscal year, the latest year for which numbers are available. About half came from individuals.¶"The government estimates that each year, the I.R.S. fails to collect about $345 billion."¶Out of over 140 million returns last year, about 80 million were filed electronically.¶"The wealthiest 1 percent of Americans earn 21 percent of total national income, but pay 39 percent of taxes."¶About 10 percent of us wait until the last day to file — or ask for an extension.FINAL TAKE Reader's Digest, citing the book "Unusually Stupid Americans," by Kathryn and Ross Petras, has compiled a list of business deductions people have tried to claim.Here are  two of our favorites: One woman  claimed a mink coat as a legitimate expense because she said "she worked better when she looked her best." Then there was the "fee paid to a business consultant who happened to be an arsonist: claimed by a furniture owner whose business burned down."PAUL B. BROWN"Business owners tell me every day that the way they generate the most new business is through referral marketing," John Jantsch writes  on ducttapemarketing.com, a Web site devoted to helping small businesses with their marketing. "Yet they don't seem to grasp the power of this statement. Few if any businesses harness the true power of referrals by making the receiving of systematic referrals a cornerstone of their marketing efforts."Referrals, he says, work because they are credible. "When a trusted friend tells you about a business, you transfer that trust to this company, he writes,  "even if you've never heard of them before."In addition, the people referred to you "tend to spend more money," he says. "Research has proven this beyond the shadow of a doubt and it is likely because people tend to refer others who are highly qualified and not just tire kickers or price shoppers."And, of course, it may be the least expensive  form of marketing there is.A GOOD THING Denise O'Berry, who works with small businesses to help them get referrals, is quick to stress the difference between a referral — a good thing — and a lead — which is not as helpful."When you receive a lead, the person sending it your way thinks they are sending you to a prospect who may need what you offer," she writes on targetreferrals.com. "A lead is a mere step up from a cold call. Ugh! That's why so many leads go nowhere and just waste your precious time."She describes a referral, by contrast, as a "warm contact." The person referring you, she says, "has confirmed that the prospect not only needs, but wants what you offer and the prospect is ready, willing and able to talk with you."WHAT TO DO The question, then, is how to get  your current customers to give   referrals. It could be "because you have not instructed them, motivated them, made it easy for them, asked them or initiated the process,"  Gary Lockwood writes   on the Web site of International Cyber Business Services, a Web services firm. "Like most worthwhile endeavors, getting referrals requires planning and preparation.He makes the following suggestions:¶ "Start by making a list of all the people who might be a referral source for you. These may include people you do business with, such as your banker, accountant, attorney, printer, consultant, broker, and so on. This list will also include at least some of your existing clients."¶  Then,  zero in on the people who are already  frequently recommending prospects to you. "Almost always, you'll have better results by developing stronger relationships with a few referral sources rather than shallow relationships with lots of sources."¶ Help those  referral sources  help you by telling them exactly what kind of clients you are looking for, explaining in detail how you can help those potential clients. Also, be sure to point out the types of clients you do not want. "When you are clear about describing the recommendations you want, you make it easier for your referral partners to identify prospective customers for you."WHAT NOT TO DO There is no guarantee that asking for a referral will get  one.But writing on Horsesmouth, , a "business-building resource for financial advisers," Miriam Lawrence offers  four approaches that will most likely get rejected.Here are our two favorites:1.  "I can either spend my time looking for new clients or providing better service to your account. You determine that via the referrals you send me. Which will it be?"2.  "I'd really appreciate it if you could refer me to a few of your friends. I need new clients to stay in business — it's so hard these days to find prospects."LAST CALL "Are you skittish about initiating a frank family discussion of the challenges of intergenerational wealth transition," Barbara Spector asks in Family Business."GenSpring Family Offices has developed an enjoyable, nonthreatening conversation starter, the Shirtsleeves to Shirtsleeves board game."The object is  not to run  out of money by the time the company is run by the third-generation of family members.The game takes its name from the old adage, From shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations: the first generation builds the business creating wealth; the second generation inherits it and the third generation destroys it.It is, unfortunately, an experience that countless family-owned businesses have gone through.When, as a child, I heard grandiose tales of my great-grandfather the dentist, I could have been forgiven for thinking that before he came along, dentistry was like something out of a sepia-toned comic skit, with mallet as sedative and crude pliers for extraction. And his arrival, in my imagination, instantly brought the modern dental office.But in this case, I was to learn, hyperbole and fact were surprisingly close cousins. For when I mention that fabled ancestor, G. V. Black, to dentists, roles are reversed and their  jaws drop (though this has yet to translate into a free root canal). His statue stands in Lincoln Park in Chicago. And the reproduced office of the man considered "the father of modern dentistry" is a central feature of the National Museum of Dentistry in Baltimore.The museum, a Smithsonian affiliate, has been open for a decade, but having seen Black's office years ago when it was at the Smithsonian in Washington, I had not ventured to Baltimore. But a recent, sizable gift from the family of a cousin (a fellow descendant, of course) went to spiff up the Black exhibit, prompting me to make that long-overdue visit. (Naturally, in deference to the occasion — and yes, at my wife's insistence — I first brushed my teeth thoroughly at our hotel.)After making our way through a gaggle of preschool children who had yet to know the dentist's drill, and walking past an intriguing variety of exhibits — George Washington's dentures, film stars' smiles, a poster for the 1938 Our Gang short "The Awful Tooth," fearsome 17th-century instruments, 7th-century Mayan shell implants — we spied a life-size  Greene Vardiman Black, in all his bearded, buttoned-up glory, surrounded by his leather dental chair and desk, cabinets of tools (most of which he invented) and elaborate pedal-operated drill (also his creation). An interactive display offered facts and photographs. (Wait! I have that picture, passed down from my mother, but didn't know who it was. It's G. V.'s father!)In that display were the bare bones of a remarkable life: Born in 1836 on an Illinois farm. A mere 20 months of formal schooling. ("The boy with his dog and gun learned more in a day than a teacher taught in a month," as one biographer put it.) Apprenticed to his brother, a doctor, at 17. Learned all he needed to know — probably just about all there was to know — of dentistry in a few months. Served briefly in the Civil War. Set up shop in Jacksonville, Ill., doing tireless research into all things tooth. (A daughter born there, vintage 1876, became the fearsome grandmother of my youth.) Invention after invention:  102 "cutting instruments," by one count; silver amalgam for fillings with just the right chemical balance. Joined the faculty of the Northwestern University Dental School in 1891, and in 1897 became its dean.In one striking photograph, Black is shown in a classroom, with tooth models, three feet tall, arrayed in front of him as teaching tools.In the mid-19th century, dentistry was all about mending inevitable damage from an eating lifestyle, and it was practiced by pretty much anyone who hung up a shingle. A great part of  Black's legacy was helping to elevate dentistry to a profession and, as he  put it in 1896, to shift to "preventive rather than reparative dentistry." In 1908, two volumes of his "Operative Dentistry" appeared, followed by a third in 1915, the year he died.  "For their clarity, illustrations and exhaustive investigation," a dental journal declared in 1974, "they contain the backbone of dentistry."So, yes, he wrenched dentistry into the modern age, but he was far from a modern man in, say, equality of the sexes. Among my artifacts is a pair of elaborate silver candlesticks given to the venerable G. V. at a 1910 banquet at the Congress Hotel in Chicago. A photograph shows a grand ballroom packed with perhaps 400 tuxedo-clad men  and not one woman. And in an 1899 letter to my grandmother, then a young bride, he wrote: "A woman's chief glory is the glory of her husband. Any action of hers that sets him ahead in the world advances her."But that's a quibble. He is an imposing, white-bearded figure in my circa 1913 family photograph, with my 6-year-old mother at his feet. At one point, I've read, his beard reached his waist (now that  would be an imposing sight from a dental chair). And he was far from one-dimensional — he was said to be an accomplished violinist, cellist and singer, he once built his own boat, he learned French and German to study medical texts, and he taught himself to be ambidextrous by writing two letters simultaneously.So with all those inventions so widely used for decades, we descendants must be fabulously wealthy, right? Well, no. Black was, by all accounts, mostly indifferent to money and had little interest in patents. Instead of commercializing his alloy for fillings, for instance, he  gathered manufacturers, charged a nominal fee to teach them to make the alloy, and left the business details to them. How un-American! Yet it deepens my respect for this tirelessly inventive man.AS the economy sinks, Connecticut's big-city mayors are growing increasingly desperate for new revenue sources to cope with soaring costs, the housing crisis and an overburdened property tax system.But a major increase in state aid doesn't seem to be in the cards in a year when state revenues are falling and cautious lawmakers are facing re-election.Enter an idea Connecticut has never tried before: giving cities a direct share of some state tax revenues.The matter came up recently when the mayors of New Haven, Bridgeport, Stamford and New London went to Hartford on March 24 to ask legislators  to give municipalities the option of raising the state's 6 percent tax on goods and services by one cent in their cities, with the extra cent going to their coffers. This is similar to systems used in at least 38 other states, including New York and New Jersey.The mayors argued that their local sales tax plan would provide their cities with badly needed new revenue without forcing lawmakers to support an overall state tax increase.But the mayors'  plan drew immediate opposition from key lawmakers in both parties, including Hartford's mayor, Eddie A. Perez, and Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, who insists the state shouldn't be raising taxes in an economic downturn.Democrats instead came up with a complex alternative that includes sharing half of state hotel tax revenues with the cities where the money is generated, using funds from disposal of unclaimed properties, and a new tax on delivery services like Federal Express and the United Parcel Service. The plan could provide more than $102 million in new revenues to municipalities.Despite strenuous Republican opposition, Democrats used their majority muscle to push the measure through the legislature's Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee on a 36-15 party-line vote.But almost as soon as the committee took its vote, the measure faced opposition from both Governor Rell and the House speaker, James A. Amann."The proposal for a new tax on business is especially ill-timed," said the governor's spokesman, Christopher Cooper, "given the economic pressures many of Connecticut's small and mid-sized businesses are currently experiencing with the downturn in the national economy."Mr. Amann, a Democrat from Milford, said: "This is not the time to raise taxes. This isn't going to be helpful to business."The speaker also said he had been "a little surprised" that the Democratic leaders of the finance committee who proposed the new tax hadn't consulted with him first.With both the governor and Mr. Amann against it, the new tax on delivery services would appear to stand little chance. But Representative Cameron Staples of New Haven, co-chairman of the finance committee, said discussions of that proposal or some alternative form of new revenue for cities and towns would continue through the budget negotiations "right up to the end of the session."According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, 43 states (including New York and New Jersey) already offer counties, cities and some special districts the option to levy local taxes on sales, income or payrolls, tourism, tobacco or alcohol.New Jersey also offers communities within specified "urban enterprise zones" the opportunity to cut the state's 7 percent sales tax in half to encourage commerce within their boundaries."The experience of other states is not necessarily applicable to Connecticut," said State Senator William H. Nickerson, a Greenwich Republican. He warned that allowing a hodgepodge of local sales taxes in a small state like Connecticut would push consumers and developers to take their business down the road to whichever municipality didn't have an extra tax.The proposed tax on delivery services would raise an estimated $60 million. The tax would even cover the in-Connecticut portion of shipments that originate outside the state.But Bob Hruskocy, one owner of the Hartford-based Adcom Worldwide Inc., said higher fuel prices are already eating into profits for delivery and courier services."If this goes into effect, it would hurt our business even more," he said.Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford warned that local taxpayers can't continue to suffer under what he calls "a broken property tax system." If state officials don't like the tax revenue sharing proposals, Mr. Malloy said, "then they have an obligation to come up with something else."Mayor John DeStefano Jr. of New Haven, now in his seventh term, said homeowners have had it with higher taxes. The environment for home ownership is "the worst since the Great Depression," he said. Both mayors are Democrats.Another Democrat, the new mayor of  Bridgeport, Bill Finch, has called for 90 city layoffs and a significant local tax increase."I'm literally swimming in red ink," he said.Genentech and Biogen Idec's cancer drug Rituxan failed to slow the disabling effects of the most difficult form of multiple sclerosis in a large clinical trial, the companies said Monday.Rituxan failed to reach its main goal of slowing disability for people with primary progressive multiple sclerosis after almost two years of treatment, compared with a placebo, the companies said. If the trial had succeeded, it would have made Rituxan the first drug to work against the primary progressive form of multiple sclerosis.Rituxan, a blood-cancer drug that is also approved for rheumatoid arthritis, generated $2.29 billion in sales in the United States in 2007. It is designed to work by killing inflammatory B cells, a different approach from approved  multiple sclerosis drugs. About 400,000 people in the United States have multiple sclerosis, and one in 10 have the primary progressive form that gradually damages nerve fibers over time without remissions, according to the National MS Society."While the primary results are not what we had hoped, we continue to believe in the potential of B cell therapy for patients living with MS," said Michael Panzara, Biogen's vice president and chief medical officer of its neurology strategic business unit.The companies plan to continue analyzing the results and submit them at a medical meeting, the companies said.Front PageAn article on Thursday about possible disruptions to air passengers because of a federal directive on aircraft inspections misstated part of the name the law firm of L. Nick Lacey, a former director of flight standards at the Federal Aviation Administration. His firm is Morten, Beyer & Agnew — not Morton, Beyer & Agnew.  (Go to Article)InternationalAn article on Monday about food shortages and rising food prices described incorrectly a comment by Robert B. Zoellick, president of the World Bank, about the World Food Program's efforts to raise $500 million in food aid for poor countries by May 1. He said that nearly half the money had been raised, not enough to meet the goal. He did not say that the program would not meet its May 1 deadline.  (Go to Article)MetroAn article in some editions on Saturday about a decision by Basil Paterson — a powerful union lawyer and the father of David A. Paterson, New York's governor — to seek the advice of a state ethics commission on avoiding potential conflicts of interest referred incorrectly to a bill that was supported by the president of the New York City teachers' union. The bill would prohibit — not allow — the linking of decisions on teacher tenure to student test scores, and it was passed by the Legislature, not killed.  (Go to Article)An article on Friday about a lawsuit over judicial pay filed against New York State by Judith S. Kaye, the state's chief judge, misidentified the party represented by Kenneth Feinberg in a similar lawsuit filed in 1991 by Sol Wachtler, the chief judge at the time. Mr. Feinberg was the lawyer for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, not Judge Wachtler.  (Go to Article)A caption on April 8 with a picture in some editions showing Brooklyn third graders working on a "School Is Cool" mural misidentified the school that the children attend. It is Public School 335 in Crown Heights, Brooklyn — not P.S. 35.Business DayThe Media Equation column on Monday, about the Web site The Smoking Gun, which broke the story that The Los Angeles Times relied on fraudulent documents for an article on a 1994 assault on the rapper Tupac Shakur, misstated the nature of the assault. Mr. Shakur was shot five times; he was not murdered. (He died in September 1996 of multiple gunshot wounds suffered in a drive-by shooting.)  (Go to Article)The Link by Link column on Monday, about collecting publicly available data and using computers to turn the information into a book, misstated the title of Philip M. Parker, who has used the process to generate more than 200,000 books. He is the chaired professor of management science at Insead, a business school based near Paris — not the school's Eli Lilly professor in innovation, business and society.  (Go to Article)An article on Thursday about the small-business opposition to some federal tax proposals referred incorrectly to people to whom the businesses must now supply 1099 forms, which are used to report payments over $600. The forms are provided to independent contractors, not employees. (Employees receive W-2 forms.)  (Go to Article)Science TimesAn article on Tuesday about the growing use of residential wind turbines to produce electricity misstated the name of the New York State agency whose president, Paul Tonko, commented on renewable energy incentives for the turbines. It is the Energy Research and Development Authority, not the Renewable Energy Development Authority.  (Go to Article)OpinionA letter from Hartford on Friday about a Connecticut connection to "South Pacific" misspelled the surname of the musical's composer. He was Richard Rodgers, not Rogers.  (Go to Letter)The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper's journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com.
