IF the University of Wisconsin business school ever writes a case study about itself,  the  lesson may be that some things are more valuable unsold.Condé Nast Portfolio reports that the school persuaded  alumni to donate $85 million in exchange for a promise that it would not sell its name for the next 20 years.To convince potential donors that they were getting  a good deal, the school's dean, Michael M. Knetter, sent out a mathematical proof showing that naming rights of business schools like  Wisconsin's have been increasing in value at about 8  percent a year, Genevieve Smith writes.The University of Washington School of Business renamed itself the Michael G. Foster School of Business at the University of Washington last year in exchange for a $50 million donation.If that is the going rate, and if Mr. Knetter's math is right, the University of Wisconsin's name would be worth more than $233 million 20 years from now.According to Mr. Knetter's calculations, "the value of the school's name has already appreciated by about $2 million" since the deal was announced in October, Ms. Smith writes.NOT YET "With financial firms losing almost 30 percent" of their value, and "home builders falling more than 50 percent since June, it's hard not to be tempted by apparent bargains" in those sectors of the stock market, SmartMoney writes.Still, it appears that is too early to be buying, Reshma Kapadia writes.Analysts quoted in the article are still worried about the backlog of unsold homes, and say it may not be until next year before the fundamentals of home building companies improve and their stocks rebound.Bank shares could improve before that, but there is still the worry that a "deeper economic slowdown, or a steeper drop in home prices could result in further write- downs," Ms. Kapadia writes.One potential buying signal, the experts say, is  a string of bank takeovers. Ms. Kapadia points out, "if industry players are willing to buy rivals, they must believe that nothing will come out of the woodwork."D-I-Y INSURANCE Given the rising cost of property insurance — because of fires,  hurricanes and other disasters — a growing number of people who own their second homes outright are considering self-insurance, Robb Report Vacation Homes reports."Self-insurance is more or less synonymous with non-insurance and appeals to those who are wealthy enough to bear the risk of loss themselves, rather than pay high monthly premiums that could end up costing more than the home is worth," John Morell wrote.Obviously, the plan is not without risk. As one financial adviser quoted in the article points out, "Self-insuring in a place like Florida, where every home is threatened during hurricane season, is considered gambling."Homeowners who have a mortgage on their property invariably are required by their lender to carry insurance. So self-insurance is not an option for them.LESS LUXURY? It is not caviar at the cost of hamburger, but Bloomberg Markets reports that Saks, Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom are "cutting prices to keep their least affluent shoppers — those who might spring for a $1,200 Coach handbag when flush with cash" buying at their stores. "These shoppers, who have an annual average household income of $75,000, are discouraged by the worst housing downturn in 26 years," Cotton Timberlake writes.One expert said:  "Americans are feeling less wealthy. In 2008, the effect of the housing market is going to be more apparent."FINAL TAKE About 30 percent of men who are  18 to  34 years old are still living with a parent, Cosmopolitan reports, citing a University of Pennsylvania study.That is, of course, bad news for both the housing industry — and the parents. PAUL B. BROWN At least someone knows how to fill a piggy bank.Unlike most American consumers, whose failure to save has exasperated economists for years, the typical American corporation has increased its savings so sharply that it probably has enough cash on hand to completely pay off its debts.That should be good news in an economy unsettled by rising energy prices, tightening credit, gyrating stock prices and declining values for the dollar and the family homestead. Indeed, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, cited strong corporate balance sheets as a bright spot in the darkening forecast he presented to Congress last week.Some analysts also speculate that these cash-rich companies may start sharing their wealth with investors through special dividends, providing  welcome stimulus for the  economy.Corporate spending on equipment and other capital expenditures has declined as savings have soared, suggesting that companies could stimulate the economy now by going on a hiring and spending spree. But that raises worries among some analysts that companies will spend their cash unwisely, making them more vulnerable in the future.The  increase over the last decade in the amount of cash, as a percent of total assets, for the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has been steep.  One study shows that the average cash ratio doubled from 1998 to 2004 and the median ratio more than tripled, while debt levels fell. According to S.& P., the total cash held by companies in its industrial index exceeded $600 billion in February, up from about $203 billion in 1998.René M. Stulz, who holds the Reese chair in banking and monetary economics at the Fisher College of Business at Ohio State University, said research he conducted with two other professors on corporate cash levels since 1980 indicated that growing cash holdings over that period most likely reflected the simple fact that the world became a much riskier place for business."Companies responded to those rising risks by saving more," said Professor Stulz, whose study excluded utilities and financial companies because their cash reserves are monitored by regulators.An even longer savings trend was spotted by Jason DeSena Trennert, managing partner and chief investment strategist at Strategas Research Partners in New York, who said his own rough examination of corporate balance sheets shows that "cash, as a percent of total assets, is as high as it's been since the 1960s."The ledgers of many  individual companies bear out these findings. For example, the cash ratio at Paychex  — cash and short-term investments as a percent of total assets  — has more than doubled, from less than 30 percent in 1988 to more than 70 percent by last summer. Over the same period, Apple's cash ratio grew to more than 60 percent, from just over 38 percent.The cash ratio at Avon Products,  just under 3 percent in 1988, was nearly 17 percent by last December. And Microsoft's savings account is so large that its chief financial officer has observed that the company could, if it wished, cover most of the $20 billion cash component of its pending $44.6 billion offer for Yahoo from its own reserves.This cash-saving trend may have a downside, though. Because companies can spend from their own account without scrutiny from the investment bankers or commercial bankers who might otherwise lend them money, corporate executives can do some really dumb things with their cash, said Amy Dittmar, an assistant professor at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan, who has studied corporate spending habits in the United States and abroad."There is a subtle line between having enough money to do what you have to do versus having enough money to do anything you want to do,"  Professor Dittmar said.Manny Weintraub, a former managing director and top-performing money manager for Neuberger Berman who formed his own investment advisory firm in late 2003, agreed. "Like your mother told you, the rule should be that if you don't have anything nice to buy, don't buy anything," he said.The Stulz team's study showed that this trend of rising cash ratios was not limited to very large corporations  —  indeed, the average increase is more pronounced among firms below the top one-fifth of the sample.Over the same time, the study found, one measure of corporate debt — the net debt ratio, or debt minus cash as a percent of total assets — fell so sharply that, by 2004, it was below zero, where it stayed at least through 2006."In other words," the researchers noted,  "on average, firms could have paid off their debt with their cash holdings."Those who study corporate balance sheets suggest that several factors have contributed to this change in corporate savings patterns.In the last 25 years, the speed and scale of globalization have increased sharply. That shift to worldwide markets confronted companies with increased currency risks, political risks and new competition — all adding to the overall risk of doing business.During the same period, conglomerates and similarly diversified companies fell out of favor, as Wall Street looked for "pure plays" and companies narrowed their focus to a few core businesses — in effect, putting more of their eggs in fewer baskets.That left those companies more vulnerable to any event that shook those baskets, Professor Dittmar explained.  "When firms become less diverse and more focused, they become more volatile," she said. And when that happens, they need cash to cushion the bumps.While rising risks may explain most of these changing patterns, other business trends may also have had an impact.For example, the Stulz team's paper shows that rising cash levels were, to some degree, influenced by a drop in capital spending on hard assets, which can be used as collateral for borrowing. Similarly, the study found, as companies increased their focus on research and development investments, which are not as useful for borrowing purposes,  cash levels rose.Moreover, cash has traditionally been just one component of "working capital," along with inventories and accounts receivable. But innovations like "just in time" supply chains and faster payment systems have reduced the role of inventories and accounts receivable and, conversely, raised the role of cash on corporate balance sheets, Professor Dittmar said.Adding to that, the corporate universe now contains a higher percentage of the companies that have traditionally held lots of cash, notably technology companies. These companies now make up about 45 percent of the economy, up from less than 30 percent in 1980. That would inevitably increase the overall averages for cash ratios.The study by the Stulz team, however, specifically allowed for that change — and found that even among technology companies, the ratio of cash on the balance sheets has grown sharply over that period.According to Mr. Trennert, the cash ratios at technology companies have doubled since 2000.With cash levels this high, Mr. Trennert said he expected that some companies — those that also have high levels of insider ownership — may elect to pay a special dividend in the coming year, ahead of any future change in the favorable tax treatment those dividends now receive. "If I were a C.E.O.'s tax lawyer, that would certainly be my advice," he said.As the Stulz team noted, this trend is in many ways paradoxical and unexpected. In the last 25 years there has been an explosion in financial products intended to help companies manage risk  —  from currency devaluations to commodity shortages."We would expect improvements in financial technology to reduce cash holdings," the researchers noted.And yet, corporations have continued to cope with risk the old-fashioned way: by saving for a rainy day. That suggests that either corporations are not making sufficient use of risk-management tools, or that the tools themselves  —  while helpful  —  are inadequate to cope with the increased levels of risk that companies now confront, Professor Stulz said.Some veteran investors also suggest another factor that may have encouraged the growth in cash ratios. Mr. Weintraub, the money manager, pointed out that in the years examined in the Stulz team's study, Wall Street started giving greater weight to balance-sheet strength.Though that focus clearly faltered during the technology stock bubble of the late 1990s, it is coming back into vogue in today's uncertain times, said Quincy Krosby, an economist and chief investment strategist at the Hartford, an insurance and  financial services company.With the markets so unsteady,  companies with soft stock prices and solid balance sheets are attracting attention from institutional investors, she said, in part because the companies, especially in the technology realm, have enough cash to expand their market share through acquisitions.But won't big cash cushions turn  these companies into sitting ducks for leveraged-buyout firms or foreign buyers spending today's remarkably cheap dollars?Maybe not — or, at least, maybe not yet.Professor Dittmar noted that the credit squeeze has made it less likely that highly leveraged private equity funds can go gunning for cash-rich companies, as they have in the past.Political pressures, meanwhile, are likely to protect American companies from hostile foreign buyers — certainly through an election year, and even longer if the Democrats take the White House and make gains in Congress, Mr. Weintraub noted.But, with the debt-burdened American consumer cutting back, wouldn't the risk of a recession decline if companies with overstuffed wallets took their cash out and spent it?Emphatically not, said Professor Stulz. Research strongly suggests that companies are holding more cash because they need it to operate more safely in a risky environment, he said."If they spend it, they will become more fragile," he added. "And an increase in the number of fragile firms is not in the best interests of the economy.""Putting a price tag on a staff job can be a lot harder than pricing your company's products and services," Joanna L. Krotz writes in Microsoft's Small Business Center."The salary you set must be high enough to attract top applicants but not so high that it eats into your profits or survival."With that in mind, she offers a series of tips, including these:¶ Anticipate. The interviewer does not  want to react to a prospect's salary request and, instead, should  know ahead of time what the company  can and should pay.¶ Compare apples to apples. Define the job as completely as possible. This is not the vice president of a 17-employee company, but the person who will handle Internet marketing for an architectural firm. Once the job is defined, research the going rates. Everyone from friends at similar firms to a  trade association can provide salary data.¶ Stress the fringes. "Jobs are rarely only about money, although that may be what applicants mention first," Ms. Krotz writes. Benefits and quality of life perquisites  like flextime can be extremely appealing.COMP TIME At first blush, it seems fair. Instead of paying an employee overtime, the boss tells an employee she can have one hour off at some future point for every extra hour she works.The problem, according to Nolo.com,a legal advice Web site, is that the tactic "is generally illegal" because it keeps employees from collecting  overtime pay.The site suggests one simple way around the problem: rearrange  employees' schedules so  they do not work more than 40 hours in a given week. "For example, an employee who works four 10-hour days and then has three days off need not be paid overtime."CENTS SENSE In "12: The Elements of Great Managing" (Gallup Press, 2007, $25.95)  the authors, Rodd Wagner and James K. Harter, use the findings in Gallup surveys to look at what makes managers successful. They have this to say about the problem of  compensation:"The issue of pay is not logical though too often it is approached by managers as a logical problem to be solved. Higher pay does not guarantee higher engagement. People with the same pay often perceive it very differently, depending on other issues. Pay comparisons can elicit intense emotions but we found that if workers strongly feel that their colleagues are 'committed to doing great work' then there is less chance perception of pay will become a factor in workers wanting to leave the organization. The best path for a manager is to view pay through the emotional lens that it is and get to know their employees and their workplace well enough that pay criteria, recognition and advancement are all done in a meaningfully personal way."ARE YOU UNDERPAID? For a fascinating look at what your peers pay their senior people (including themselves) take a look at  Inc.'s 2008 Executive Compensation Guide.The magazine asked PayScale, a provider of salary and compensation data, to figure out median cash compensation — base pay plus bonus, but not including stock options, benefits or other noncash payments — for senior  executives at privately held companies with  10 to  1,000 employees.The paychecks were smaller than you might think. A chief executive in Boston, for example, makes $254,000 a year; a chief technology officer in Phoenix earns $147,000 and a chief operating officer  in Miami receives $137,000.Also interesting is the relationship of the top salaries."The ratio between pay for C.E.O.s and that of their top managers stays fairly constant regardless of company size," Jennifer Gill writes. "Cash compensation for C.F.O.s and C.I.O.s, for example, runs about 60 percent that of C.E.O.s. For operation officers, the number is closer to 70 percent, though their pay jumps fast as companies increase in size and operations get trickier."LAST CALL This is a quiz. What do  Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg;  Steve Jobs of Apple, Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, and the chief executive of Whole Foods Markets, John Mackey, have in common?According to Stockerblog, a Wall Street blog,  they all are paid $1 a year.(Stock options and the like not included.)"Eduard Spelterini: Photographs of a Pioneer Balloonist" Edited by Thomas Kramer and Hilar Stadler Scheidigger & Speiss, 148 pages, $85 hardcoverA century before privileged travelers were ferried through the air in the Concorde, Eduard Spelterini (1852-1931) was catering to the rich and adventurous by taking a lucky few, preferably European royals, up in the tipsy baskets of his gas balloons. These trips offered unprecedented views of the world below, everywhere from the Alps to the pyramids. From the available evidence, those who found passage on this earlier and slower mode of transport got more for their money than today's air travelers.The King of the Skies, as the Swiss-born showman billed himself, was a canny entrepreneur whose well-publicized liftoffs were attended by thousands of paying spectators on the ground. And once the balloon reached its planned ascent of between 1,600 and 13,000 feet, he entertained his customers by popping the Champagne and singing one of the baritone arias from "Carmen."Spelterini also produced, as this oversize book reveals, splendid aerial photographs. Many of the black-and-white panoramas reproduced here from his original glass-plate negatives — images of Alpine glaciers and South African mining sites, of streets and buildings in Cairo, Zurich, Geneva and Copenhagen — are technical as well as artistic marvels. Some pictures were shot from more than 15,000 feet. These photographs aided in promotion of his flights and of the tourist industry.Alex Capus, one of three essayists in this book, harps on Spelterini's lowly origins. He was from peasant stock, son of an innkeeper, and born Schweizer — family secrets he wanted hidden from his aristocratic clientele. This proved less important after history blindsided him, and his business was decimated by new technology. According to Mr. Capus, the aging balloonist "considered the young rival, the motorized airplane, to be noisy, common, and entirely unworthy of a gentlemen."By reminding us of the many obstacles he overcame, the editors have performed a valuable service. Spelterini mastered his risky profession, steering these whimsical vehicles through all kinds of weather, without killing himself or others during more than 550 flights. By unearthing photographs that continue to excite our gaze, this book restores the forgotten aeronaut to his deserved place as a pioneer of luxurious travel across the heavens.One day after the author of "Love and Consequences" confessed that she had made up the memoir about her supposed life as a foster child in gang-infested South-Central Los Angeles, the focus turned to her publisher and the news organizations that helped publicize what appeared to be a searing autobiography.Geoffrey Kloske, publisher of Riverhead Books, the unit of Penguin Group USA that released the book, by Margaret Seltzer,  under a pseudonym, Margaret B. Jones, said on Tuesday that there was nothing else that he or Sarah McGrath, the book's editor, could have done to prevent the author from lying."In hindsight we can second-guess all day things we could have looked for or found," Mr. Kloske said. "The fact is that the author went to extraordinary lengths: she provided people who acted as her foster siblings. There was a professor who vouched for her work, and a writer who had written about her that seemed to corroborate her story." He added that Ms. Seltzer had signed a contract in which she had legally promised to tell the truth. "The one thing we wish," Mr. Kloske said, "is that the author had told us the truth."Riverhead has recalled nearly 19,000 copies of the book and is offering refunds to book buyers.Ms. Seltzer told her editor and her publisher that she wanted to use the pseudonym because it was the name she was known by in the gang world and because she was trying to reconnect with her birth mother and felt that using her real name would complicate this effort. But she lied to them and in the book about most of the basic elements of her identity, claiming that she was part American Indian and that she had moved from foster home to foster home as a child. In fact, as she admitted on Monday, she grew up with her biological family in the prosperous Sherman Oaks neighborhood of Los Angeles, and graduated from a private Episcopal day school.Ms. McGrath, who never met Ms. Seltzer during three years spent editing the book, said Ms. Seltzer, who lives in Eugene, Ore., had provided what she said were photographs of her foster siblings, a letter from a gang leader corroborating her story and had introduced her agent, Faye Bender, to a person who claimed to be a foster sister.Ms. McGrath said  she also trusted Ms. Seltzer because she had come through "a respected literary agent" who had in turn been referred to the author by a writer whom Ms. Bender had worked with previously.Despite editing the book in the aftermath of the scandal surrounding James Frey, author of a best-selling memoir, "A Million Little Pieces," who admitted making up or exaggerating details in his account of drug addiction and recovery, Ms. McGrath said she did not independently check parts of Ms. Seltzer's story or perform any kind of background check. She said she relied on Ms. Seltzer to tell the truth."In the post-James Frey world, we all are more careful," Ms. McGrath said. "I had numerous conversations with her about the need to be honest and the need to stick to the facts."Ms. Bender, Ms. Seltzer's agent, said that the author had been using a false persona for years and that friends and colleagues — including Ms. Bender — believed she had grown up in foster care in the gangland of Los Angeles."There was no reason to doubt her, ever," Ms. Bender said. Similarly, reporters who interviewed Ms. Seltzer were also taken in by her story. Tom Ashbrook, the host of "On Point," a program on public radio, ran an interview with Ms. Seltzer (as Margaret B. Jones) in which she recounted her fake life. Mimi Read, a freelance reporter, wrote a profile of Ms. Seltzer that appeared on Thursday  in the House & Home section of The New York Times and did not question the memoirist's story."The way I look at it is that it's just like when you get in a car and drive to the store — you assume that the other drivers on the road aren't psychopaths on a suicide mission," said Ms. Read, who was never told Ms. Seltzer's real name by the publisher or by Ms. Seltzer. "She seemed to be who she said she was. Nothing in her home or conversation or happenstance led me to believe otherwise."Ms. Read said that she did contact Ms. Seltzer's fiancé and also asked her to provide information about Uncle Madd Ronald, who Ms. Seltzer claimed was her gang leader and was now in prison. Ms. Seltzer provided a prison name and prison identification number, and a copy editor confirmed that the prison existed.Ms. Read said she wished she had been more skeptical and done further fact-checking. "Of course I wish I could do it differently," she said. "I think a lot of other people were fooled before me."Tom de Kay, editor of the House & Home section, said he asked Ms. Read to track down other people from Ms. Seltzer's past to corroborate her story. Because Ms. Seltzer told Ms. Read that her foster siblings were dead, in prison or no longer in touch, it was difficult for Ms. Read to find people to interview.Mr. de Kay said that ultimately, "I was to some degree trusting that the vetting process of a reputable book publisher was going to catch this level of duplicity." But, he added: "Do I wish in retrospect that we had called L.A. child services and tried to run down the history of this person? I certainly do."In a publishing landscape that has been rocked by scandals like Mr. Frey's fabrications and the hoax perpetrated by Laura Albert, the woman who posed as the novelist J T  LeRoy, a supposed addict and son of a West Virginia prostitute, other publishers and agents said their business still operated on trust."It is not an industry capable of checking every last detail," said Ira Silverberg, an agent who represented J T LeRoy (without knowing he was actually Ms. Albert) and Ishmael Beah, author of the best-selling memoir "A Long Way Gone," who was recently accused by Australian journalists of distorting his service as a child soldier in Sierra Leone's civil war during the 1990s, a charge that he and his publishers have repeatedly denied. "So to present yourself as something you are not betrays all the trust."Nan A. Talese, who published Mr. Frey's "A Million Little Pieces," said the combination of these recent episodes could start to change the business's practices. "I think what editors are going to have to do is point to the things that happened recently and say to their authors, 'If there is anything in your book that can be discovered to be untrue, you better let us know right now, and we'll deal with it before we publish it,' " Ms. Talese said. But she added: "I don't think there is any way you can fact-check every single book. It would be very insulting and divisive in the author-editor relationship."Sarah Crichton, publisher of her own imprint at Farrar, Straus & Giroux and the editor of "A Long Way Gone," said she did some background checking on Mr. Beah. "I come out of journalism and so I certainly wanted to make sure the historical record was accurate," said Ms. Crichton, a former editor at Newsweek. "But I will confess that I did the checking that I did also in part just to protect us, because I knew that we were going to be publishing into a changed landscape."In "Love and Consequences," a critically acclaimed memoir published last week, Margaret B. Jones wrote about her life as a half-white, half-Native American girl growing up in South-Central Los Angeles as a foster child among gang-bangers, running drugs for the Bloods.The problem is that none of it is true.Margaret B. Jones is a pseudonym for Margaret Seltzer, who  is all white and grew up in the well-to-do Sherman Oaks section of Los Angeles, in the San Fernando Valley, with her biological family. She graduated from the Campbell Hall School, a private Episcopal day school in the North Hollywood neighborhood. She has never lived with a foster family, nor did she run drugs for any gang members. Nor did she graduate from the University of Oregon, as she had claimed.Riverhead Books, the unit of Penguin Group USA that published "Love and Consequences," is recalling all copies of the book and has canceled Ms. Seltzer's book tour, which was scheduled to start on Monday in Eugene, Ore., where she currently lives.In a sometimes tearful, often contrite telephone interview from her home on Monday, Ms. Seltzer, 33, who is known as Peggy, admitted that the personal story she told in the book was entirely fabricated. She insisted, though, that many of the details in the book were based on the experiences of close friends she had met over the years while working to reduce gang violence in Los Angeles."For whatever reason, I was really torn and I thought it was my opportunity to put a voice to people who people don't listen to," Ms. Seltzer said. "I was in a position where at one point people said you should speak for us because nobody else is going to let us in to talk. Maybe it's an ego thing — I don't know. I just felt that there was good that I could do and there was no other way that someone would listen to it."The revelations of Ms. Seltzer's mendacity came in the wake of the news last week that a Holocaust memoir, "Misha: A Mémoire of the Holocaust Years" by Misha Defonseca, was a fake, and perhaps more notoriously, two years ago James Frey, the author of a best-selling memoir, "A Million Little Pieces," admitted that he had made up or exaggerated details in his account of his drug addiction and recovery.Ms. Seltzer's story started unraveling last Thursday after she was profiled in the House & Home section of The New York Times. The article appeared alongside a photograph of Ms. Seltzer and her 8-year-old daughter, Rya. Ms. Seltzer's older sister, Cyndi Hoffman, saw the article and called Riverhead to tell editors that Ms. Seltzer's story was untrue."Love and Consequences" immediately hit a note with many reviewers. Writing in The Times, Michiko Kakutani praised the "humane and deeply affecting memoir," but noted that some of the scenes "can feel self-consciously novelistic at times." In Entertainment Weekly, Vanessa Juarez wrote that "readers may wonder if Jones embellishes the dialogue" but went on to extol the "powerful story of resilience and unconditional love."In the vividly told book, Ms. Seltzer wrote about her African-American foster brothers, Terrell and Taye, who joined the Bloods gang when they were 11 and 13. She chronicled her experiences making drug deliveries for gang leaders at age 13 and how she was given her first gun as a birthday present when she was 14. Ms. Seltzer told The Times last week, "One of the first things I did once I started making drug money was to buy a burial plot."Sarah McGrath, the editor at Riverhead who worked with Ms. Seltzer for three years on the book, said she was stunned to discover that the author had lied."It's very upsetting to us because we spent so much time with this person and we felt such sympathy for her and she would talk about how she didn't have any money or any heat and we completely bought into that and thought we were doing something good by bringing her story to light," Ms. McGrath said."There's a huge personal betrayal here as well as a professional one," she said.Ms. Seltzer said she had been writing about her friends' experiences for years in creative-writing classes and on her own before a professor asked her to speak with Inga Muscio, an author who was then working on a book about racism. Ms. Seltzer talked about what she portrayed as her experiences and Ms. Muscio used some of those accounts in her book. Ms. Muscio then referred Ms. Seltzer to her agent, Faye Bender, who read some pages that Ms. Seltzer had written and encouraged the young author to write more.In April 2005, Ms. Bender submitted about 100 pages to four publishers. Ms. McGrath, then at Scribner, a unit of Simon & Schuster, agreed to a deal for what she said was less than $100,000. When Ms. McGrath moved to Riverhead in 2006, she moved Ms. Seltzer's contract.Over the course of three years, Ms. McGrath, who is the daughter of Charles McGrath, a writer at large at The Times, worked closely with Ms. Seltzer on the book. "I've been talking to her on the phone and getting e-mails from her for three years and her story never has changed," Ms. McGrath said. "All the details have been the same. There never have been any cracks."In a telephone interview, Ms. Seltzer's sister, Ms. Hoffman, 47, said: "It could have and should have been stopped before now." Referring to the publisher, she added: "I don't know how they do business, but I would think that protocol would have them doing fact-checking."Ms. Seltzer said she had met some gang members during a short stint she said she spent at "Grant" high school "in the Valley." (A Google search identifies Ulysses S. Grant High School, a school on 34 acres in the Valley Glen neighborhood in the east-central San Fernando Valley.) "It opened my mind to the fact that not everybody is as they are portrayed on the news," she said. "Everything's not that black and white or gray or brown."She said that although she returned to Campbell Hall, she remained in touch with people she met at Grant and then began working with groups that were trying to stop gang violence. She said that even after she moved to Oregon, she would often venture to South-Central Los Angeles to spend time with friends in the gang world.In the book, she describes her foster mother, Big Mom, an African-American woman who raised four grandchildren and a foster brother, Terrell, who was gunned down by Crips right outside her foster mother's home.Ms. Seltzer, who writes in an author's note to the book that she "combined characters and changed names, dates, and places," said in an interview that these characters and incidents were in part based on friends' experiences. "I had a couple of friends who had moms who were like my mom and that's where Big Mom comes from — from being in the house all the time and watching what goes on. One of my best friend's little brother was killed two years ago, shot," she said.Ms. Seltzer added that she wrote the book "sitting at the Starbucks" in South-Central,  where "I would talk to kids who were Black Panthers and kids who were gang members and kids who were not.""I'm not saying like I did it right," Ms. Seltzer said. "I did not do it right. I thought I had an opportunity to make people understand the conditions that people live in and the reasons people make the choices from the choices they don't have." Ms. McGrath said that she had numerous conversations with Ms. Seltzer about being truthful. "She seems to be very, very naïve," Ms. McGrath said. "There was a way to do this book honestly and have it be just as compelling."YUBA CITY, Calif. — When George P. Dunmore started his business in Sacramento in the early 1950s, World War II was over and the building boom was on. Over the next several decades his company, Dunmore Construction, along with other respected builders, took the tabula rasa that was California's Central Valley and etched it with entire neighborhoods filled with well-built ranch houses on trim lawns.Mr. Dunmore lived through his share of lean years, of course; that is the rhythm of the home construction business. But for the most part, his company prospered. His son Sidney got into the business. And Sidney B. Dunmore's boys followed him.But by the time Mr. Dunmore died last October, at age 89, his son Sidney found himself caught in the middle of a real estate collapse. Overextended and pursued by a long line of creditors,  the company bearing the family name, Dunmore Homes, was sold to a New York  corporation owned by a Sacramento-area mortgage broker for $500, including the assumption of liabilities totaling more than $250 million. Two months later,  the new owner filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code.A bankruptcy court in Sacramento is left with the task of untangling a web of transactions, affidavits, property transfers, loans and liens that have come to symbolize the real estate crisis not just for Dunmore Homes, but for an entire industry.Beyond that, George Dunmore's widow, Ruth, 84, is contending that her two  grandsons — who had also started real estate development companies carrying the Dunmore name — forged her signature on bank loan documents and pressured her, according to documents filed in a California state court.The story of the Dunmores is the story of the nation's housing crisis writ small, familial and mean: three generations of home builders who got rich from the go-go years of the California real estate boom, only to fall victim to the   housing bust. And it is a tale of greed, hubris and denial of economic reality.Dysfunctional families, of course, can be found in every business, but the bursting of the housing bubble in the  Central Valley, where there was once so much money to be made,  accentuated any problems this family might have had.Not only was George Dunmore a fair businessman,   friends and acquaintances say, but he was an avowed family man as well. Of Mr. Dunmore's three children, Sidney, now 53,  showed the most interest in taking up the family trade. After years of  apprenticing under his father, the younger Mr. Dunmore started his own firm, Dunmore Homes.Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, Dunmore Homes expanded. The company formed more than a dozen subsidiaries throughout the state, with more than two dozen  developments, many of them catering to first-time home buyers in need of subprime and nonconventional loans. The company eventually built a total of 22,000 homes.The region was one of the fastest-growing real estate markets in the country. In Sacramento County, from 2000 to 2005, the median price of homes more than tripled, to $385,000, according to DataQuick Information Systems."It was the type of market that floated all boats," said Greg Paquin, president of the Gregory Group, a real estate market research firm in Folsom, Calif. "Builders, buyers, investors: everyone was happy."For Sidney Dunmore life was good. His own  opulent home  —  all 12,000 square feet of it — is in Granite Bay, an affluent Sacramento suburb. He also has  a $2 million 4,600-square-foot second home   in the resort town of Palm Desert, Calif.Then, in late 2005, the housing slowdown hit the region, falling squarely on the corridor south of Sacramento, from Modesto to Merced, where the Dunmores had once been so successful. Builders began offering incentives to move homes as if they were cars on a dealer's lot: low-interest financing, free appliances, anything to make a sale.By last year, the subprime mortgage industry was in crisis, credit had dried up and the younger Mr. Dunmore became no less reflective of an era than his father was of his. "I think Sid always built a nice product, but he was always very aggressive," Mr. Paquin said.Delbert Rapini, a longtime Sacramento contractor who said he was an admirer of George Dunmore, said,   "Sid had it made, but he acted like an idiot"  by extending himself too far.Mr. Rapini, who does not do business with Sidney B. Dunmore,  said that Mr. Dunmore would have been well advised to remember that downturns in real estate are "all part of a cycle that happens every 10 or 12 years."Mr. Dunmore refused several requests for an interview.By last August, the company had halted construction altogether, leaving vast tracts   peppered with partly finished homes.At one new ghost town in Yuba City, which is north of Sacramento,   the scene looks as if construction workers just picked up and left. Some homes are mere frames, barely suggestive of a dwelling.Dunmore's rapid expansion may have been unwise, analysts say, but it was not unusual."Any builder, even the best-capitalized builders, drank the Kool-Aid and bought too much land and loaded up at the peak," said Ivy Zelman, a home building industry analyst. Ms. Zelman, who said she had no direct knowledge of Dunmore Homes, said she believed that the company might have taken on "way too much risk and just assumed values would go up.""I imagine that's what they were thinking and didn't have good disciplines in place."John Slaughter, a spokesman for Dunmore Homes who left the company this week, recalled how  "so much happened with the mortgage industry, and prices dropping, and all the foreclosures.""It got to where we were a private company, competing with the large billion-dollar companies that could continue to reduce prices, and we just couldn't compete with that," he said.In September,  Dunmore Homes changed its name to DHI Development and sold its assets  for $500 to a New York entity called Dunmore Homes Inc. The new Dunmore Homes is owned by  Michael Kane, a Sacramento mortgage broker. He declined to comment.Mr. Kane got not just the assets, but debts amounting to more than  $250 million owed to a lengthy list of creditors that includes banks, contractors, landscapers, electricians, plumbers and paving companies.Mr. Dunmore's creditors cried foul over the  sale, as well as the bankruptcy court filing in New York, a continent away.Mr. Dunmore apparently had his reasons for the quick, cheap sale. According to court documents, by declaring his losses in the sale of the business, Mr. Dunmore  is due a 2007 tax refund of  approximately $11 million — money that he will use to pay off an $11 million obligation to Dunmore Homes."He couldn't have financial gain without showing a loss," said James Curran, a lawyer representing Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of America, which has a separate lawsuit pending against DHI Development and Mr. Dunmore to recover $9.65 million. "He went into bankruptcy for a reason, and it was to capture those losses for his financial gain."In December a federal judge in San Francisco granted Travelers a writ of attachment against both of Mr. Dunmore's homes.Meanwhile,  William M. Niemi, the former president of Dunmore Homes, has sued Mr. Dunmore, contending, among other things, breach of contract."It's about as horrible as it could be," said Howard Nevins, a lawyer who represents Hemington Landscape Services, which, according to legal papers, is owed $827,941 by Dunmore Homes. "There just appears to be inadequate resources to get creditors paid."In January, a bankruptcy judge in New York agreed to have the case moved to California."It seems like the company is in a shambles, but Sidney Dunmore is still alive and well," Mr. Curran said. "I'm sure we haven't seen the last of Mr. Dunmore or Dunmore Homes."Indeed, the real estate vein runs deep in the Dunmores. People close to the family say that Sidney Dunmore keeps his distance from his two sons, Sidney and Jeremy, now in their 30s. Their company, Dunmore Capital, a real estate venture firm, has troubles of its own. Umpqua Bank, based in Oregon,  is suing the two  for repayment of several million dollars in loans.The bank named Ruth Dunmore, their grandmother, and the estate of George Dunmore in that suit. Umpqua Bank points to them as cosignatories for the loans. But in her cross-complaint to that suit,  the elderly Mrs. Dunmore says   the two young entrepreneurs  "embarked on an aggressive and unending campaign to, among other things, scare, pressure and manipulate" her.The booming real estate business in the Central Valley has ground to a halt, but another business is booming here. For Mr. Nevins, whose specialty is bankruptcy law, "it's been very busy."Responding to criticism that home appraisers had inflated prices in recent years, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac said Monday that they would  buy mortgages only from lenders that use independent appraisers.The shift, part of an agreement with the attorney general of New York, is expected to force large lenders like Countrywide Financial to sell or spin off their appraisal businesses. The changes will also create a watchdog to monitor the appraisal business.The deal is significant victory for the attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, who has been investigating the mortgage industry for a year, and last year sued an appraisal company owned by the First American Corporation. Because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are buying most home loans being made today, the terms they dictate to banks and mortgage companies become de facto industry standards. The changes announced on Monday will go into effect in 2009.As defaults and foreclosures have surged in the last year, regulators and industry analysts have raised pointed questions about the independence of appraisers. Because they rely on banks and brokers to give them additional business, appraisers often feel pressured to value a home at prices that match or exceed loan amounts.Mr. Cuomo's deal on appraisals is unusual in that it has the blessing of the regulator that supervises Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Mr. Cuomo and other state officials have often squabbled with federal officials over who should police the mortgage business, and how. Negotiations over the agreement have been taking place for several months and intensified in recent weeks.But significant federal-state tensions remain. In a statement on Monday, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which regulates savings banks like Countrywide and Washington Mutual, said that "the agreement has some positive elements" but added that it was concerned that "the closed-door fashion in which it was reached could result in negative unintended consequences."Mr. Cuomo, who was secretary of housing and urban development in the Clinton administration, said the new rules were important to restoring the confidence in the mortgage market."The appraisal is the linchpin of the system," he said. "But the appraisal was the most susceptible to pressure."Under the new rules, lenders who want to sell loans to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac will not be allowed to use in-house appraisers to do the first evaluation on a home. They will also be forbidden from using appraisals by a subsidiary or an affiliated company. Mortgage brokers and real estate agents involved will also be prevented from picking appraisers.For a company like Countrywide, that would mean it would no longer be able to use its LandSafe subsidiary to do appraisals for its home loan business if it wanted to sell loans to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Title companies like First American would also have to divest their appraisal divisions if they wanted to continue working for lenders that sold loans to the mortgage agencies.Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will put up $24 million to create the Independent Valuation Protection Institute, a group that will accept complaints from consumers and appraisers. The institute will put the new rules into place and monitor their enforcement, reporting to Mr. Cuomo's office and the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, or Ofheo, the regulator that monitors Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Shares of Fannie Mae fell 4.4 percent, to $26.44, and Freddie Mac was down 5.8 percent, to $23.72.The Appraisal Institute, a trade group that represents 30,000 appraisers, endorsed the agreement, saying it would "reinforce the independence of real estate appraisers and the integrity of appraisals."But the National Association of Mortgage Brokers denounced the deal for putting mortgage brokers at "a severe disadvantage," saying it would "prevent them from engaging competitively in the mortgage marketplace."The deal almost collapsed because of differences between federal and state regulators. Mr. Cuomo and the companies were hoping to announce the agreement a week ago but stalled after the director of Ofheo, James B. Lockhart, said he wanted the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to sign off. Mr. Cuomo agreed because the support of federal officials would speed up its implementation.The banking regulators worried that the deal would not give banks and other mortgage lenders enough time to comment on changes that could limit their ability to make loans. To address their concerns, the negotiators added a comment period during which Fannie and Freddie would solicit feedback from lenders.At several junctures, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, interceded on Mr. Cuomo's behalf by making phone calls to Mr. Lockhart and banking regulators. "I said, 'Look this is the right thing to do,'" Mr. Schumer said.The banking regulators suggested several provisions that ended up in the final agreement and agreed not to publicly criticize the deal, according to several people involved in the discussion. Officials at the banking regulators' offices declined to discuss their involvement."It was a cooperative relationship," Mr. Lockhart said. "It worked out once we all understood that we were in this together."
