"SECURITY experts warn that as supply chains become more global and more opaque, no one can be sure what parts are going into the computers that run, well, everything from air traffic control towers to banks to weapon systems," Popular Mechanics says.In an article,  "The Manchurian Chip," Glenn Derene and Joe Pappalardo outline in detail the possible dangers."Individuals, companies and federal agencies could all be at risk from foreign governments or criminal enterprises," they write. "A computer chip built with a subtle error might allow an identity-theft ring to hack past the encryption used to connect customers with their banks."In addition, they say, flash memory hidden in a corporation's printers could capture an image of every document produced and send it on to people who should not have it."In a disturbing national security scenario, overseas agents might be able to hard-wire instructions to bring down a Department of Defense system on a predetermined date, or in response to an external trigger," they write. "In the time it took to bring the systems back online, a military assault could be under way."Somewhat reassuringly, the reporters write that "not all experts agree that the risk is severe." And they point out that  there has never been a report of either criminals or a foreign government using such technology to  steal information or commit sabotage.GREENISH Compared with the alternatives, online meetings, shopping on the Internet and telecommuting all save energy.But  they do come with an  environmental cost,  Scientific American points out. "E-mailing, number crunching and Web searches in the U.S. consumed as much as 61 billion kilowatt-hours last year, or 1.5 percent of the nation's electricity," David Biello writes.In fact, if current trends continue, by 2010, the "power bill to run a computer over its lifetime will surpass the cost of buying the machine in the first place."E-WASTE Here is something to think about the next time you boot up your computer, turn on your television or listen to your MP3 player."Three billion units of consumer electronics potentially will become scrap between 2003 and 2010," according to PC Magazine. "That's nine gadgets thrown away for every person currently living in the U.S."To take just one aspect of that trash, the magazine points out that a "pile of our obsolete computers could make a 22-story mountain that covers the entire 472 square miles of the city of Los Angeles."The magazine notes that much of the technology-based trash we create is shipped overseas for recycling.IVY EDGE? As the last of the fat envelopes (acceptance) and thin (rejection) letters arrive from the nation's colleges over the next 10 days, here is something for high school seniors (and their parents) to ponder: Does getting into an Ivy League college offer any guarantee  of business success?"For the corner office, at least, the answer is no," ForbesLife Executive Woman reports. "The 2008 annual survey of S.& P. 500 C.E.O.'s, conducted by executive search firm Spencer Stuart, found that only 11 percent had Ivy League" degrees.It is interesting to note that a degree from the  Ivy League — Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Harvard, Princeton, the University of Pennsylvania or Yale  — may have a greater impact for women."Of the top 60 women on the most recent Forbes 100 Most Powerful Women list, 20 percent hold Ivy degrees, either graduate or undergrad," according to research done by Ellen Grasso.FINAL TAKE Some 43 percent of employees think they could do their boss's job just as well — or better, Money reports, citing a Yahoo HotJobs survey.Given this, it will be interesting to see how many managers strain their necks, looking over their shoulders. PAUL B. BROWN SOMEWHERE along the line, having $1 million — like the ability to diagram sentences, do math in your head, and the dollar itself — became devalued.Today, when magazines routinely compile lists of the world's billionaires, and trillion-dollar federal budgets are commonplace, a mere $1 million seems quaint. Still, it is a nice round number to aim for as you plan for retirement, and is the focus of two new books.Indeed, writing that you need at least a seven-figure nest egg is perhaps the biggest contribution that Michael K. Farr makes in "A Million Is Not  Enough" (Springboard Press, $24.99).Mr. Farr, president of an investment firm based in Washington,  doesn't break any new ground on how you should get to that $1 million threshold.  Like  many other personal-finance authors, he talks about the need to cut your expenses. And he cites the now seemingly obligatory measure of eliminating your daily cup (or two or three) of takeout coffee and investing what you would have spent on it.When it comes to where to put that money, his advice is also familiar: Invest in stocks for the long term, although he would have you be a bit more aggressive than most. For example, he writes that  55-year-olds should have 85 percent of their retirement money in equities, with 10 percent in bonds and 5 percent in cash. The conventional wisdom puts the stock portion at somewhere between 65 and 80 percent.In his favor, Mr. Farr is terrific on the basics, going so far as to begin at the very beginning. "Investing can simply be defined as committing money with the hope of achieving a financial return on it," he says.But his real value is in providing a definable goal. Most retirement books  tell you to save as much as you can or ask you to make an almost impossible calculation of how much you will spend in retirement.Mr. Farr simply declares that to achieve self-sufficiency, you will need $1 million, figuring that it will generate about $50,000 a year in income. He stresses that if $50,000 won't do it for you, you need to save a lot more. "Those who want (or need) to spend $250,000 per year in retirement will need $5 million," he writes.Clearly, if you are going to receive a pension of some kind, and if  Social Security is still  around, you may be that much further ahead of the game.  Mr. Farr's focus here is on building a nest egg  that is entirely within your control.He outlines steps to get your house in order, beginning with figuring out your net worth and determining where the money goes each month, and ending with the creation of a financial legacy. Throughout, he says that the onus is on you to fund the retirement you want, although he emphasizes that it may not be as difficult as  it looks."You've succeeded in many other parts of your life," he says, "and I've no doubt that with the right mind-set, the proper information and research and the kind of dedication that you have demonstrated in other areas of your life, your million-dollar mission will be a success."The authors of "Millionaire by Thirty" (Business Plus, $22.99) contend that you may not have to work that hard.In this book, Douglas R. Andrew, assisted by his sons — Emron D. Andrew and Aaron R. Andrew — builds on  some of the arguments he made in "Missed Fortune 101" (Business Plus, $23.99). For the financially unsophisticated — a description that probably applies to a substantial number  of people in their 20s, the book's target audience — many of their strategies would be extremely risky.The book starts  on solid ground, suggesting that young adults should not be in a hurry to pay off their student loans, because the rates are usually low and the interest deductible. And they recommend owning a home, instead of renting, because mortgage debt is deductible and houses usually appreciate.Things start to get dicey when they argue that  real estate is a great way to become a millionaire. They are big believers in buying numerous properties, arguing that real estate is safer than stocks.They never define what they mean by safer. The current housing crisis has taught many investors that housing isn't entirely safe. Nonetheless, if the authors mean "less volatile," they may be right. Despite the current turmoil, housing prices over the long term have been more stable than those of stocks.But less risk means generally means less reward. The National Association of Realtors says  on its Web site that  typically "home values rise at the general rate of inflation plus 1.7 percentage points."  Since 1926, inflation has averaged a little more than 3 percent a year. If we accept the association's numbers, that means the average house price has climbed about 5 percent a year, notwithstanding the current downturn.By comparison, stocks over that time have returned 10.4 percent, annualized, and bonds 5.5 percent, according to Ibbotson Associates.Given the lagging returns for real estate, how do you make your fortune with it? Through leverage, the book contends.Here's the sort of thing it recommends. (The example is ours. Theirs takes many pages to explain.)Say you put down just 10 percent to buy a $400,000 home. If it appreciates 10 percent in one year —  the kind of market climb the book is  fond of hypothesizing — then, in theory, you have made 100 percent on your money. You  put down only $40,000 (10 percent of $400,000), and the house, on paper, is now worth $40,000 more than you paid.The authors say you can then take that $40,000 out of the house, by refinancing, using the profits to buy another house or to fund another investment.Piece of cake, right? Well, no. First, their examples mention no  transaction costs,  like fees for refinancing, or points on mortgages.  Second, leverage can cut both ways. If that $400,000 home drops 10 percent in value in a year and you sell, you are out your entire $40,000.  If you time the  market correctly, you can become extremely rich, but   timing is tricky.What isn't tricky is this: If a 28-year-old saves $400 a month  until the age of 65, and the  money earns 8 percent a year, she will end up with slightly more than $1 million. It won't happen by  30. But she won't have to worry about being wiped out by a housing crisis.Since taking control of the Tribune Company in December, Sam Zell has drawn a lot of attention in journalism circles for speeches laced with profanity, political incorrectness, insults and self-deprecating humor.But all the twittering and tut-tutting over Mr. Zell's remarks —  and his suggestions that some reporting jobs are not needed —  masks a more serious concern. With the newspaper industry going through an unexpectedly sharp contraction, Tribune is struggling under $12.8 billion in debt,  and its financial condition has deteriorated, creating what specialists say is a very real risk of credit default in the next year or so.That has forced the company to consider the sale of Newsday, one of its most profitable newspapers  —  precisely the kind of move Mr. Zell had said he did not want to make. "We didn't do this deal to figure out what to get rid of," he told the company's flagship paper, The Chicago Tribune, last year.Mr. Zell said from the start that he would sell the Chicago Cubs baseball team, but that deal has been delayed. Now, analysts say, Tribune probably needs to sell both the Cubs and another major asset like Newsday, and relatively soon, to remain solvent.Of course, if this house is ablaze, Mr. Zell has supplied much of the kindling. Almost $8 billion of Tribune's debt came from the highly leveraged deal, which he engineered, that took the company private. That borrowing now looms as the biggest threat to the company, at least in the short run."There's very little margin of safety," said Mike Simonton, senior director at Fitch Ratings. "The company needs to execute asset sales and cost cuts in order to make its debt service payments and offset the significant revenue declines."Mr. Zell understands that. He had criticized the previous management for repeatedly cutting newspaper staffs, but under him, the Tribune Company has eliminated more than 400 jobs at The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune, Newsday, The Baltimore Sun, The Orlando Sentinel, The Hartford Courant and other papers."I have discussed with many of you our mutual concern about the cyclical eroding of content quality to meet budgets manufactured in the corporate office," he wrote in a staff memo in February. "I promise you, in time, we will end that downward spiral."Mr. Zell and the company declined to comment for this article, but they have scheduled a conference call with bankers and journalists on April 17 to discuss Tribune's finances.Meanwhile, he has been making business moves and rallying the troops, supplying what analysts and Tribune executives say are healthy ideas and a needed sense of urgency. He has dashed around the country to Tribune newspapers and television stations,  warning that a somnolent corporate culture had better get moving.At a company known for its cautious pace, he has made quick decisions and given more authority to managers who felt hamstrung by the top-down style of the old regime.But at times, his message has been overshadowed by confrontational or provocative statements. He told reporters in Washington, D.C., that there were far too many of them, and said to employees they should be free to look at explicit Web sites while at work. He has also told journalists that they must be part of the quest for revenue, an unsettling prospect for people in a line of work who have prided themselves on remaining apart from their employers' business concerns.When Tribune agreed to an $8.2 billion takeover offer from Mr. Zell in April 2007, many analysts said the price was high and left little maneuvering room."This thing looked shaky from the start," said Ken Doctor, lead analyst with Outsell. "It looked worse by the time the deal closed in December, and it's gotten worse since then."But Mr. Zell was not taking on much of the risk. He put up $315 million, and the company borrowed the rest. Tribune's stock is now held by an employee stock ownership plan. That makes the company tax-exempt, partially offsetting the interest payments, but as profits dwindle, so do the tax savings. Tribune reported $87 million in net income last year, down from $594 million in 2006. And the company cannot escape capital gains tax on asset sales until it has been tax-exempt for 10 years.Since Mr. Zell made his bid for Tribune, things have been worse for newspapers than many predicted, with advertising  revenue down almost 8 percent in 2007 and 2008 off to a poor start.Tribune's papers fared worse yet, losing 10.5 percent of ad revenue last year. Even so, the company's operating margins were healthy by industry standards. What sets Tribune apart is its debt burden. Its debt service bill this year is almost $1 billion, not including a $650 million balloon payment from the takeover financing that is due in December, and one for $750 million due in mid-2009.Last year, the company had earnings (before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization) of about $1.2 billion. But 2008 is expected to be more difficult, and the company's bond covenants require it to have earnings around $1.1 billion or risk being declared in default — even if it has the cash to make its interest payments.Tribune's credit rating has slipped several notches below investment grade, and its bonds are trading far below their face value, signaling that the market sees a high risk of default. The company's long-term, unsecured debt can be bought for less than 50 cents on the dollar.Despite these problems, some of  Mr. Zell's strategic moves have been praised by some industry analysts. Tribune created a subsidiary to combine and streamline back-office operations of television stations, and sold Tribune's Hollywood production studios and some related real estate for $125 million. It merged the online operations of a Miami television station, WSFL, and the Fort Lauderdale newspaper, The Sun-Sentinel.The company shifted a San Diego station, KSWB, from the CW network to affiliation with the more lucrative Fox network, and gave The Baltimore Sun the go-ahead to start a youth-oriented tabloid. Several stations have new general managers, and The Orlando Sentinel has an interim publisher.Tribune has replaced most of the company's upper management, hiring some highly regarded television executives, and also some from the radio and music industries who have no experience in television or newspapers. One of the latter, Lee Abrams, the chief innovation officer, has already gained something of a reputation with long, rambling, excited e-mail messages to the staff, loaded with references to the history of rock 'n' roll, that have left people scratching their heads."If we can morph the Soul of Dylan ... with the innovation of Apple and the eccentric-all-the-way-to-the-bank of Bill Veeck, the WORLD will be a better place," he wrote in one missive.Still, a Tribune executive who, like others interviewed, declined to speak on the record, said, "I think that people are energized, where before they felt nobody could make any decisions, but there is still a healthy amount of skepticism and they know it's going to be very hard."An equity analyst who follows the company said, "These mostly look like smart moves, but they might only help on the margins."Things have not gone according to plan for Mr. Zell on several fronts.Last year, he said he did not want to part with any newspapers, but he recently began fielding offers for Newsday, based in Melville, N.Y.He set out to sell the Cubs and their home, Wrigley Field, and Tribune executives talked of reaching a deal in 2007. But the talks have been slowed by the complex arrangements Mr. Zell is seeking, and Tribune executives now say the team might not be sold until after the baseball season ends in October.He wants to sell the ballpark to a state agency, the team to a private buyer, and possibly the naming rights to the field  to a third buyer. And he has insisted that a stadium deal has to be in place before he negotiates for the team.Tribune put out word last month that it might sell Newsday, and three newspaper publishers with properties nearby signaled that they want it  —  Mortimer B. Zuckerman, owner of  The Daily News; Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, which publishes The New York Post and The Wall Street Journal; and the Observer Media Group, which publishes The New York Observer. The Dolan family, owners of Cablevision, Madison Square Garden, the Knicks and the Rangers, have also expressed interest.People advising potential buyers said the price for Newsday could exceed $500 million. But they also said that as with the Cubs, Mr. Zell has included an unusual twist that could delay a deal.To minimize Tribune's capital gains tax bill, they said, Mr. Zell wants much of the payment to be noncash and possibly deferred, most likely  involving a real estate transfer.Selling the Cubs and Wrigley makes sense because they could fetch a high price but do not generate  proportionate income. Tribune executives have talked about reaping as much as $1 billion for the team, the ballpark and the naming rights.Analysts say Tribune might also sell another valuable asset that is not part of the core business, its stake in the Food Network.But Newsday seems like the kind of property a long-term owner would want to keep if he could. It is part of the core business — the newspaper business that Mr. Zell said he wanted to be a part of — and has the kind of cash flow the company will need for years as it pays off its bonds.As Mr. Simonton of Fitch put it, "There is absolutely a paradox there."AS part of a promotion for the tiny Fortwo in the United States, publicists at Smart arranged a visit for auto journalists to the Computer History Museum in the Silicon Valley city of Mountain View, Calif. The automaker, part of the Daimler corporate family alongside Mercedes-Benz, wanted to point out that in the world of computers, evolution favors the small.Technological progress and prestige are marked by compression and reduction; compactness is a virtue in high-tech products like cellphones and computers.But "compact" and "subcompact" carry pejorative overtones when applied to cars, where greater size has long signaled power, prestige and security.As drivers in the United States grudgingly adapt to higher gasoline prices, automakers seem to be taking a greater interest in building smaller cars that are more than afterthoughts to larger, more profitable models. A look at the vehicles on display at the New York auto show last month suggests that the design of scaled-down models — often called B-class cars by the industry and city cars by marketers — is improving."City cars will become increasingly important, even in the U.S.," said James E. Press, the longtime Toyota executive who is now vice chairman at Chrysler, during a recent business conference at the Levin Institute in New York.Because cars of this size are sold in many countries, they have also come to be known as world cars.At the New York show, Ford displayed a design study called the Verve, a version of a new small car that will be sold as the Fiesta, a name Ford has used on its world car for decades. European sales start this fall with an American introduction in 2010.General Motors has added smaller models from Europe and Asia to its North American lines, including the Saturn Astra, sold by G.M.'s Opel and Vauxhall brands in Europe and Britain. Detroit automakers sell still smaller models like the Opel Corsa and Ford Ka overseas, but until recently there was little reason to consider bringing them to the United States.The Toyota Yaris and Nissan Versa are world cars whose sales have been expanded to the United States in recent years. A new version of Honda's rival to those models, the Fit, made its debut at the New York show, only two years after the last-generation model came to this country.The Fit, which is called the Jazz in other parts of the world, is available in about 100 countries. Now Honda is pitching it for cities: "With an aggressive new face, it's perfect for the hustle and bustle of metro-centric life styles," a Honda advertisement says.The B-class cars are increasing in popularity around the world. The so-called millenials, or Gen-Y buyers, that Ford hopes to attract with the Fiesta are accustomed to products that offer high value in small packages, said Peter Horbury, executive design director for the Americas at the Ford Motor Company.Ford researchers estimate that small-car sales around the world will grow to about 38 million in 2012, from 23 million in 2002. In the United States, Ford estimates total small-car sales of 3.4 million in 2012, an increase of 25 percent over a decade.The success of the Mini Cooper in the United States has changed the small-car market for both buyers and sellers. Buyers have come to expect that European automakers will offer models that are well-designed and space-efficient — and buyers will pay more for them."The assumption about a product is that if it is European it can be small and expensive," said Bryan Nesbitt, vice president for North American design at G.M. In a previous assignment at G.M.'s European design studios, Mr. Nesbitt oversaw work on models like the Opel Agila.But many models that flourish around the globe are not available in the United States. When the World Car of the Year was announced at the New York auto show, it was a small model unfamiliar to the locals: the Mazda 2. In the United States, the company's numbers go only as low as the Mazda 3.Americans have coveted the attractive small cars of Europe for years: a recent example is the new Fiat 500, a nostalgic update of a beloved people's car. Recent exchange-rate shifts will hurt the chances of such cars coming here: the recently announced Volkswagen Scirocco is too expensive to sell in this country, the company says, although its predecessors were hits here.Sales of South Korean models have relied heavily on low prices and long warranties, but now small models from Hyundai and Kia have grown more appealing. The Kia Koup, a design study that made its debut last month in New York, offers a sophisticated combination of European form and edgy American lines, reflecting the backgrounds of its creators: Peter Schreyer, formerly of Audi and now the chief design officer of Kia Motors, and Tom Kearns, formerly of Cadillac, who is today the chief designer at Kia's American design studio in Irvine, Calif., where the Koup was created.The body is solid and chunky; its beltline recalls a Detroit muscle car of the 1960s. A character line that the designers call the "swoosh and check"  runs from the front-door line back, providing the car a powerful graphic element that is recognizable from a distance. The Koup looks like a more expensive car, perhaps from Germany.Saab's concept car at the show presented a convincing adaptation of syling themes seen on the much-praised Aero X show car to a smaller vehicle. The 9-X BioHybrid could become the smallest Saab, possibly called the 9-1. Like the Volvo C30 and BMW 1 Series, Saab's offering suggests that even European luxury brands are thinking smaller.Many new models are likely to arrive in the market slot between the conventional compacts and the very smallest cars, like the Smart Fortwo or Toyota's new rival to the Smart, the iQ, which will not come to the United States. Volkswagen's Up family of cars, a set of concepts shown in Japan and Europe but not at the New York show, offers a vision of a global small car that can be dressed up or down, as a fashion designer might say, for markets around the world. A stripped version could sell in emerging economies and a more elaborately equipped one might be offered in Europe or the United States.The new, smaller cars are taking unconventional forms as well. In the past, many small cars appeared to be merely shrunken versions of larger siblings. Now we may see novel shapes that will be exclusive to small cars."We will see more small cars in the U.S. and they will be more different" in design, Shiro Nakamura, design director of Nissan, said in an interview at the New York show. More small niche models will appear, he said. He pointed to the Nissan Cube, due here next year. The boxy Cube, he said, comes from nonautomotive design traditions and is aimed at young people. "It is not for everyone," he said. "It does not smell of gasoline. It is more product design than automobile design."Changes in the design of smaller cars may be part of a deeper change in attitude of the sort that Smart's trip to the Computer History Museum brought out. The success of the Mini Cooper and the iPod have changed attitudes. Smallness signals cutting-edge technology: "thinnovation" is the cute portmanteau word that Apple uses in advertising for its laptop computers.The idea of small objects as packed with power may have migrated to the automotive world. But there is a difference: you fit your music on your iPod but you don't have to fit your legs into it.When the leaders of a health care business and a coffin maker teamed up to ring the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange last week, traders may have wondered if they were witnessing  some kind of  April Fool's prank.Was the spectacle a metaphor for what was happening in the health care industry, or on the Street? No, it was entirely literal. The celebrants were Peter H. Soderberg , chief executive of Hill-Rom Holdings, and Kenneth A. Camp, chief of Hillenbrand. The two businesses began trading as separate companies that day.Hill-Rom deals in medical technology and equipment. Hillenbrand is the parent company of Batesville Casket, which positions itself as "a leader in the North American deathcare industry."Before Tuesday, Hill-Rom and Batesville Casket were units of Hillenbrand Industries, based in Batesville, Ind. Separating them, Mr. Soderberg said, "is the best way to unlock value and allow each company to focus on accelerating growth in their respective industries." BRUCE FELTONFINAL TOAST Peter B. Cameron moved from the kitchen to the dining room when he went from All-Clad to Waterford Wedgwood, but now he's out the door. After a little more than two and a half years as chief executive,  Mr. Cameron, who is 60, left the Irish luxury goods company last week. He and the company released a statement saying he would "pursue his own business interests."  David W. Sculley will be the interim C.E.O.At Waterford Wedgwood, Mr. Cameron collaborated with Martha Stewart and other designers and promoted outsourcing. But the weak dollar has hurt the company, it could not meet Christmas demand, and sales are expected to be down  4 percent for the year ended March 31, to $1.1 billion.Last November, the company said it would cut half of its roughly 1,000 jobs near Waterford. KAREN FREEMAN NOW THAT'S A REFUND Lawrence J. Ellison, the billionaire chief of Oracle, just added $3 million to his wealth, thanks to the San Mateo County Assessor's Office in California.The office recently ordered the return of $3 million in taxes that Mr. Ellison had paid on his 23-acre estate in Woodside, Calif.In 2004, the county assessed the property at $163 million, but Mr. Ellison's holding company, Octopus Holdings,  later had it appraised at $64 million.In agreeing to the lower valuation, the assessor's office said that the estate, with its 16th-century Japanese architecture, suffered from "functional obsolescence" that would limit its appeal to buyers.LAURIE FLYNN REDOING THE MATH  VeriFone, a maker of payment technology like PIN cards and checkout counter credit card machines, said last  week that it "did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting," according to a company statement on Wednesday.The lapse, revealed in an internal audit, included the overstatement of $37 million in operating income for the first three quarters of 2007 and double-counting of some inventory. It also resulted in the resignation of Barry Zwarenstein, its chief financial officer, who will leave his post after  a restatement of  earnings is completed.The Securities and Exchange Commission has "indicated an interest in interviewing several current and former VeriFone officers and employers," the statement said. A company spokesman did not return calls seeking comment.STACEY STOWEIT REALLY ADDS UP Reuben Mark, who retired as chief executive of Colgate-Palmolive in July after 23 years, is standing for re-election as the company's chairman one more time on May 8. But he will not have to worry that any decision he makes could jeopardize his substantial nest egg.Mr. Mark, 69, has already cashed out his pension, collecting $36 million plus an annuity that will pay him more than $160,000 a year. He also had a gain of $149 million from exercising options on Colgate's stock and an additional $32 million from the vesting of previous stock awards.Along with more than $3 million in cash pay, that means Mr. Mark can spend some of his golden years deciding what to do with at least $220 million, before taxes.  PATRICK McGEEHAN RESISTANT TO SPIN  Many C.E.O.'s are known for putting a positive spin on negative news, but that is becoming harder to do.The C.E.O. Confidence Index, measured by Chief Executive magazine since 2002, plunged to a record low last month. Not mincing words, 52 percent of top chiefs surveyed called current business conditions downright "bad."  No word on whether the magazine plans to add choices like "truly abysmal"  or "utterly hopeless" to the survey, just in case "bad" ends up becoming business as usual.PHYLLIS KORKKI In the early part of the 20th century piano trios were glamorous for all the wrong reasons. Mostly, they were occasional collaborations of star soloists: Cortot, Thibaud and Casals, for example, or Rubinstein, Heifetz and Piatigorsky. As chamber groups in the best sense, these trios had nothing on the great string quartets, groups that rehearsed intensively and performed almost as a single organism.The Beaux Arts Trio erased that distinction. When it was founded, in 1955, its players were intent on working as quartets do, and they quickly became the gold standard of trio playing, with a huge discography to show for their efforts. Recent years have brought several personnel changes, but the original pianist, Menahem Pressler, has remained at the helm, the keeper of the Beaux Arts style, in effect.The current lineup, with the violinist Daniel Hope and the cellist Antonio Meneses, has worked together since 2002 and is particularly strong. But when the demands of Mr. Hope's solo career led him to announce his departure, Mr. Pressler decided it was time for the trio to take its last bows. On Sunday evening the group played its final New York concert at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.Schubert's two Trios, in B flat and E flat, were the main business of the program, with Gyorgy Kurtag's brief, pointillistic and almost whispered "Work for Trio" separating them.In the B flat Trio the focus was on intimacy: the extroversion and assertiveness common (if not standard) in performances of this work gave way to refinement, suppleness and nuance, with dynamics rarely rising above mezzo forte. A tradeoff was proposed here: set aside your expectations of rough-and-tumble spontaneity, and we'll give you an interpretation in which the implications of the score are deeply examined and reconsidered, and interactions are premeditated and polished.Listeners who prefer a lustier, more outgoing approach got that in the E flat Trio, with no sacrifice in glimmering surfaces and carefully conceived dialogues. Even so, the most striking moments were in the Andante con moto, where Mr. Pressler's playing was at its crystalline best, Mr. Meneses' cello sang with plaintive beauty, and Mr. Hope produced a magnificent, shapely sound, including pizzicato passages that had the lightness and delicacy of harp glissandos.As encores the trio offered movements by Shostakovich, Haydn and Dvorak. And during the final round of bows, Mr. Hope and Mr. Meneses held back to give Mr. Pressler a solo moment, which drew the most vigorous applause of the evening.Meredith Jane Barnett, the daughter of Rita Braver and Robert B. Barnett of Washington, was married on Saturday evening to Daniel Ross Penn, a son of Ann C. Penn and Dr. Joseph H. Penn of Roanoke, Va. Rabbi Harold S. White officiated at the Ritz-Carlton in Washington.The bride, 29, is a founder and the chief executive in New York of StoreAdore.com, an Internet guide to boutiques and specialty stores around the country. She graduated magna cum laude from Brown and received an M.B.A. from Harvard.Her mother is a national correspondent for the CBS News "Sunday Morning" program. Her father is a senior partner at Williams & Connolly, the Washington law firm.The bridegroom, 27, is an associate at Ripplewood Holdings, an investment firm in New York, where he analyzes potential investments and works with portfolio companies. He graduated with distinction from the University of Virginia and also received an M.B.A. from Harvard.His father is a periodontist in private practice in Roanoke.Ms. Barnett and Mr. Penn met in February, 2005, at the 75th birthday party of the author Tom Wolfe. "We were both there because we were friends of his daughter, Alexandra," Ms. Barnett said.They chatted but no sparks flew. Several months later they ran into each other again at a cocktail party given for students about to enter Harvard Business School, and she invited Mr. Penn to her birthday party that June. By the time they entered Harvard in late August, they had a friendly relationship."We started hanging out to help each other find the way in our new lives," Mr. Penn said.He also began tutoring her in finance and accounting. It was then that the tide turned."Finance led to love," she said.Several months into their relationship, they discovered that not only had their maternal grandmothers, Jeanette Braver and Harriet Levine, lived in the same retirement community in Olney, Md., but the two women had also known each other very well and were vice president and president, respectively of their community's chapter of the same women's social service organization."My grandmother used to talk about 'the president this' and 'the president that,' " Ms. Barnett said. "My mother was covering the White House for CBS and thought she was talking about President Clinton. My grandmother would say, 'The president made chopped liver today' and Mom would say, 'What?' "Going through some papers, Ms. Barnett subsequently found a photograph of her and her grandmother, along with Mr. Penn's grandmother, who died in 2003."Had my grandmother ever tried to set me up with a girl, I would never have agreed," Mr. Penn said. "But now I'm sure she is looking down on us and smiling."
