HOW do the world's highest achievers define success?After interviewing 200 people  worldwide "who have made a difference in their fields," three  authors conclude that "success in the long run has less to do with finding  the best idea or business model than it does with discovering what matters to us as individuals."In Rotman, the University of Toronto business school magazine, Jerry Porras, a professor of organizational behavior at the Stanford Graduate School of Business; and Stewart Emery and Mark Thompson, both management coaches, write that "extraordinary people, teams and organizations are simply ordinary people doing extraordinary things that matter to them."The writers, co-authors of the book "Success Built to Last" (Wharton School Publishing, 2006), point out that the people they interviewed said, "When success just means wealth, fame and power it doesn't last and it isn't satisfying."Given the title of their book, it isn't surprising that the authors refer to successful people as "builders."  "We learned," they wrote, "that builders find lasting success when three essential elements come into alignment in their lives and work."The first element is meaning. "What you do must matter deeply to you," they wrote.The second is a "highly developed sense of accountability, audacity, passion and responsible optimism."And finally, they said, these successful people "find effective ways to take action."BEFORE YOU LEAP "Only 15 years ago, a person who changed jobs every three years or so was looked at as professionally unstable," Judith Sills writes in Psychology Today. "Today, it's the guy nestled on his lily pad whom the H.R. pro looks at with a critical eye," wondering why the employee isn't more ambitious.Is it time to move on? Ms. Sills suggests you ask yourself the following questions:¶"How happy am I" to go to the office each day?¶"How much am I" growing professionally at work?¶"How does my current salary and/or level of responsibility match my aspirations?"THE DEVIL'S REVENGE As "The Devil Wears Prada" and "The Nanny Diaries" show, there is now a cottage industry of young people writing about how awful their first jobs were.In Forbes Life Executive Woman, a new magazine, employers were given the chance to turn the tables.There are stories about assistants who forgot to put ice cream cakes in the freezer for a dinner party, ones who send their boss to the wrong city on  a business trip and legal assistants who faxed opposing counsel an outline of the strategy their employer planned to use in a negotiation.But our favorite tale, in the article by Ellen Ryan, involves the assistant to a partner at a Washington public relations firm."I had just won a new client, and I wanted to take him out for a celebration," Carolyn Tieger explained. "He liked Spanish food, so I told my young, relatively new assistant I'd like to treat the client to lunch at a tapas restaurant, and to please make reservations and let him know the details."The assistant called the client and said she didn't understand why, but her boss wanted to meet him at a "topless restaurant."FINAL TAKE Want to increase your brain power? Try something different."Your brain is a thrill seeker," Nancy Kalish writes in Prevention. "New experiences stimulate the area that produces dopamine, a chemical involved in learning and memory. Studies show that doing new things builds brain mass and increases mental agility." PAUL B. BROWN New York regulators are proposing that insurance companies set aside extra money to pay for  damage in the event of a significant hurricane, seeking to ease, at least in the state, the soaring premiums faced by millions of Americans along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts. But insurers have expressed reservations.Under the New York plan, insurers would for the first time be required to use money that now goes directly to profits to create contingency funds to pay for hurricane losses. Then, when a big storm hits, money would already be designated to pay for much of the damage. The financial shock would be eliminated or reduced, the regulators say, and there would be no justification for raising premiums sharply.The state Senate's insurance committee is holding a hearing on coastal insurance problems at 10 a.m. today at the western campus of the Suffolk County Community College in Brentwood.Consumer groups and insurance companies have long advocated creating special funds for significant hurricane damage. And the consumer advocates said New York's proposal could lead to the introduction of similar plans in other hurricane-prone states along the coast."Other states may look at this and say, 'Why don't we have this sort of requirement,'" said J. Robert Hunter, the director for insurance of the Consumer Federation of America. "If every state had a reserve like this, they could actually work together so that the money could flow to wherever a hurricane struck. This would help stabilize prices and might even lower prices."After Hurricane Katrina and other big storms, prices began rising sharply along the coasts from Texas to Massachusetts. To lower their chances of big payouts, the insurers have refused to renew coverage for hundreds of thousands of homeowners and have stopped selling new policies in the areas most threatened by storms.Responding to appeals from insurers, members of Congress have introduced several bills that would provide for the federal government to pay for much of the damage from a destructive hurricane. Government backing, the insurers argue, would help make insurance more affordable and more widely available.The insurers have so far been unwilling to put money aside to pay for hurricane damages unless they were able to deduct it from federal taxes as a business expense. Most money set aside for claims receives the tax credit, but because so many variables are involved, claims related to hurricanes and other natural disasters do not.Under the New York plan, which is to be presented to insurers as a draft of a new regulation in the next few days, the insurers would be required to set aside the portion of their annual premiums that is designated to cover hurricane damage. Regulators estimate that to be about $250 million.New York has no ability to change federal tax law. So the regulation would require the insurers to set aside the money after they had paid taxes on it. They would receive a tax deduction after they paid for hurricane damage. But in the meantime, they could not use the money for other purposes.In Long Island, as much as 25 percent of the annual premium is now designated to pay for hurricane damage, said Eric Dinallo, the superintendent of insurance in New York. If there are no hurricanes, which is usually the case in New York, the companies simply keep the hurricane portion of the premium as profit. With no hurricanes in the country last year, the insurers reported record profits.Despite dire predictions, this year has also been quiet, and the insurers are headed for another year of high profits. The last significant storm to hit New York was Hurricane Gloria in 1985, at a cost of more than $780 million in today's dollars. But New York has nearly as much coastal property as Florida, and the insurers say that the recent increase in hurricane activity raises the potential for heavy losses.As for why the insurers might be willing to accept the new regulation, Mr. Dinallo said that reducing financial shocks to the companies could make them more attractive to investors. But insurance experts said the industry is likely to fight the new regulation."No one wants to be at loggerheads over this," said Robert P. Hartwig, the president and chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. "But this becomes very difficult. The insurance department is basically asking business to spend hundreds of millions of dollars that they will not be able to record as an expense for perhaps many, many years."Allstate and State Farm, the two largest home insurers in the state, were far from enthusiastic. "We need to know more to determine if this is the right approach," said Krista Conte, a spokeswoman for Allstate. At State Farm, Jonathan Freed said, "it's not clear how workable" Mr. Dinallo's plan might be.But some insurance executives said they welcomed Mr. Dinallo's plan. At Travelers, for example, Jay S. Fishman,  the chief executive, said the new regulation would not add significantly to his costs and was "a great first step" toward reducing volatility in insurance prices and perhaps making coverage more available.Mr. Dinallo said he hoped the new regulation would go into effect by early next year. But he said he was open to compromise. "I believe you're going to see other states agreeing with this," he added. "I hope this is the beginning of a national model."YOU need to get past Louis Navellier's boasting. "I've been investing in the stock market for 27 years, and within that time have helped investors beat the market nearly four to one," is one example. He also talks about his "nice oceanfront house near Palm Beach" and his frequent use of his "private jets to take my colleagues and myself where we need to go when meeting with clients and folks on Wall Street."You also have to skip over all the references to how he is a "numbers guy, plain and simple," and therefore can't be bothered with the fads and fashion of investing that distract mere mortals.But if you can do all of that, you will find that Mr. Navellier, who edits a number of financial newsletters, has written a useful book on growth investing, an approach that has fallen out of favor since the Internet stock bubble popped seven years ago.Perhaps the greatest appeal of Mr. Navellier's effort, "The Little Book That Makes You Rich" (Wiley, $19.95), is not that he offers a step-by-step guide to what he looks for in a growth company — one whose earnings are expected to increase faster than those of its industry peers or the overall market, depending on who is defining the term. That is to be expected in a book of this type.The real joy comes from his frequent admonitions that Wall Street is not as rational as it would like to pretend, and in fact it is often driven either by fear — as it is these days — or by greed. And because Wall Street is emotional, he says that you cannot look at just one factor, like earnings growth, or even several to determine what will cause a stock to take off.Instead, Mr. Navellier argues, you must analyze eight variables, five of which deal with increasing earnings. Specifically, you want to look for these things in stocks and companies:•Positive earnings revisions. These occur when Wall Street analysts conclude that "business is better than anticipated."•Positive earnings surprises.  This means that announced earnings are greater than what the analysts predicted.•Earnings growth. Profits are increasing quarter to quarter.•Increasing operating margins.  Earnings from the business — before deducting for interest payments and taxes — are going up over time.•Positive earnings momentum. Earnings are accelerating year over year.The other three measures are exactly what you would expect a growth investor to seek: increasing sales, strong cash flow and a return on equity that grows over time.Once you know what you're looking for, Mr. Navellier says, you can screen the universe of stocks to find those that score high in each category. Thanks to Web sites like CNNMoney and Yahoo Finance, that task is relatively easy. After finding stocks that meet the criteria, you put together a portfolio of at least 12, to help spread risk, and — voilà! — you're in business.The good news is that the formula makes sense. Screening for companies that score well in all eight categories should, indeed, unearth stocks that are poised to take off, or ones already climbing higher because the variables he has identified are exactly the sort that Wall Street analysts and serious investors look for.The bad news comes in two parts. First is the standard warning that no matter how terrific a particular approach to the market, you probably don't want to put all your proverbial eggs in one basket. Diversification, not only among kinds of stocks (technology, consumer staples, health care, etc.) but also investment styles (growth, value, income, etc.) is a good idea.The second is more annoying than anything else. Mr. Navellier does not show his work. He does not tell you how to apply his eight variables, other than to hint that they all don't deserve equal weight and that the weight can change, depending on what's in favor on Wall Street.Because you don't know which variables to underweight or emphasize, you may be able to identify good growth stocks, though perhaps not the best ones.And when he tells you the ideal growth portfolio would be 60 percent conservative growth stocks, 30 percent moderately aggressive ones and 10 percent aggressive ones, he neither defines the categories nor gives examples of the kinds of stocks that could be in each group.He goes into this a little further in his  Web site (getrichwithgrowth.com), which he plugs constantly. But bigger details are still lacking, and not everyone reads a book with a computer close at hand. It would have been intriguing to see him show his calculations, revealing which variables get what kind of weight, depending on what's happening on Wall Street. Sometimes, stocks with high returns on equity are in favor, while at other times, companies with soaring sales are all the rage. It would be nice to know how, exactly, he responds in each case.THESE quibbles aside, Mr. Navellier has managed to create a thorough survey of growth investing, one designed for both novices and the experienced. Those with more than $200,000 to invest, for example, can use his approach more aggressively, trading much more often in an attempt to gain ever larger profits, he says in one chapter.In short, he has done the seemingly oxymoronic, and done it well: He has written a book on growth investing that ends up being conservative in its approach. If you can do that, you are probably entitled to a bit of boasting.Early this past summer, around the time Hollywood's 2007 blockbusters were set to make their debut on the big screen, movie junkies could find a film that might, at first glance, have been confused with the box office hit "Transformers." Set in a dystopian future that looks suspiciously like an abandoned parking lot, "Transmorphers" tells the story of a war between humans and an evil race of extraterrestrial machines. Unlike its namesake, "Transmorphers" has no recognizable actors, no merchandising tie-ins and a garbled sound mix. Also unlike "Transformers," it has cheap special effects and a subplot involving lesbians. In short, though "Transmorphers" features the occasional shape-shifting robot, it bears little resemblance to Michael Bay's big-screen phenomenon.Yet "Transmorphers" had its own kind of success, earning back its meager production costs in less than three months. Created by a company called the Asylum, "Transmorphers" was only the latest in a string of cheaply made straight-to-DVD "mockbusters." In 2006, the Asylum released "The Da Vinci Treasure" and "Snakes on a Train" on DVD just as "The Da Vinci Code" and "Snakes on a Plane" were hitting theaters. Those films, Asylum says, turned a profit, too. At a time when digital cameras, computer editing and online video enable D.I.Y. auteurs to compete with B-movie studios, the Asylum has nonetheless become a self-sustaining success story.The Asylum office occupies both floors of a small brick building in Hollywood, across the street from a cement factory. On the day I visited, the office was doubling as a set for "Alien v. Hunter," which was being rushed into production to correspond with the Christmas release of 20th Century Fox's "Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem." Upstairs, I met David Michael Latt, who founded the company with partner David Rimawi in 1997. He told me that the Asylum discovered mockbusters by accident, in 2005, when Latt's own adaptation of H. G. Wells's "War of the Worlds" hit video stores around the time Steven Spielberg's big-screen version hit cinemas. Until then, the Asylum concentrated mainly on straight-to-DVD low-budget horror movies — a market that was rapidly being taken over by bigger, savvier companies like Lionsgate. So when Blockbuster ordered 100,000 copies of Latt's "War of the Worlds" (seven to eight times the typical order for the Asylum's horror movies), he and Rimawi reconsidered their business model. "We saw that Peter Jackson's 'King Kong' was coming out, so we made 'King of the Lost World,' " Latt told me. "It wasn't as successful as 'War of the Worlds,' but it made money, and that's what our buyers want. We've gotten to where we can now produce tie-in films in three to four months. And just so long as we don't mimic the promotional artwork too closely, the big studios don't seem to mind."Latt, who prefers the term "tie-ins" to "mockbusters," points out that his movies are themselves original stories, even as they tap into the publicity created by their blockbuster namesakes. "I'm not trying to dupe anybody," he says. "I'm just trying to get my films watched. Other people do tie-ins all the time; they're just better at being subtle about it. Another studio might make a giant robot movie that ties into the 'Transformers' release and call it 'Robot Wars.' We'll call ours 'Transmorphers.' "Whereas the Asylum had a well-defined audience as a horror-movie company, the mockbuster strategy aims at a broader and shallower demographic: some viewers have seen the real blockbuster and want more of the same thing, no matter how lo-fi; some are genre geeks, interested in low-budget adventure and sci-fi films; others rent the movie thinking it is something else (Web sites are rife with the scornful entries of duped film fans). Chasing diverse audiences in America and abroad, the studio largely forsakes the winking comedy of B-movie classics. "Transmorphers," for example, takes itself decidedly seriously even as it features mad scientists with robot girlfriends, cheap plastic ray guns, girl-on-girl bunk-room catfights and random T. S. Eliot references.This earnestness is central to the Asylum's other big success this year, "The Apocalypse" — a "Deep Impact"-style disaster flick that features religious end-times elements familiar to readers of the "Left Behind" series. "We were planning on making 'The Apocalypse' as a straightforward doomsday movie," Latt says, "but certain buyers told us they wanted a religious film. So we consulted priests and rabbis and made it into a faith-based film about the end of the world. We've created a Faith Films label to distribute religious-themed films, and this fall we're releasing a new faith-based movie, '2012: Doomsday.' Whether it's giant robots attacking the Earth or something from the Bible, we're just happy to be making movies."Quick, name the competitors of U.S. News & World Report. Time and Newsweek, right? Would you believe Consumer Reports?These are hard times for newsmagazines, and many of them are tweaking their offerings, looking for new ways to thrive —  or just to survive. But U.S. News wants to take on a new role, as a definitive source of information and ratings on a range of expensive consumer products.The first step in that strategy went public Friday on a magazine Web site (usnews.rankingsandreviews.com/cars-trucks)  and today on newsstands  —  rankings, reviews and information on nearly every model of car, truck, minivan or sport utility vehicle available on the American market.In the 1980s, U.S. News discovered a popular audience for authoritative-sounding statistical rankings, beginning with the annual report on colleges that is widely second-guessed  — and even more widely read. It later did the same thing with hospitals, graduate schools, high schools and even places to retire.The magazine wants to extend that practice to mostly high-end goods, starting with the automotive rankings, followed over the next few years by detailed rankings of things like video cameras, television sets and digital music players. This is less about selling particular issues of the magazine than about driving traffic year-round to Web sites with vastly more material on those products than will fit on printed pages.The plan is a gamble on where U.S. News's future lies  —  a future that its owner, Mortimer B. Zuckerman, describes in terms of shopping as much as news. In an interview in his office on the East Side of Manhattan, Mr. Zuckerman  repeatedly cited market research showing that most Americans do research online before making big purchases.After two decades of rankings, "we have branded credibility," he said. "You'd have to be blind not to see what is the economic strength of the franchise."Building credibility in a new area, however, may take some doing. In its automotive rankings, U.S. News assigns an overall numerical score to each vehicle —  along with subscores in a handful of areas  —  and offers quick, easy-to-use comparisons of that grade to all the others in its class.But the central feature, the score, is not the product of U.S. News's own detailed analysis of a car or truck. Rather, it is an analysis of other people's analyses.The magazine has searched the work of dozens of automotive reviewers at newspapers and magazines, assigned a numerical value to each review (a process U.S. News describes as complex, rigorous and top secret), and then aggregated those into final scores. The Web site offers a description of each vehicle, sprinkled with snippets of quotes from those reviewers, so that it reads as much like a Zagat's restaurant blurb as something you might find in Consumer Reports."The goal is to take as much subjectivity out of it as possible," said Rick Newman, a deputy business editor and writer who runs the magazine's automotive coverage. "You read a car review, all you're reading is some guy's opinion. What we're doing is taking all the credible information that we think is out there. The end result certainly smoothes out a lot of the opinions."Roberta Garfinkle, a senior vice president of TargetCast TCM, an advertising buyer, called the single-focus issues and the Web site  "an excellent way to draw some advertisers into the franchise that normally would not be there," like autos and luxury goods."They've got to try something" to set the magazine apart from its peers, she said. A magazine's reinventing itself used to be seen as a sign of desperation, Ms. Garfinkle added, "but it's what everybody has to do now to survive."Newsweeklies, like newspapers, have been bleeding revenue for years, and analysts, along with current and former executives, say that U.S. News breaks even, at best. (As a privately held company, it does not release financial information.)  It had $126 million in ad revenue in the first half of the year, compared with $224 million for Newsweek and $252 million for Time, according to the Magazine Publishers of America. Paid circulation of U.S. News is about two million, while the two others are above three million.U.S. News already stood apart from Time and Newsweek in 1984, when it was bought by Mr. Zuckerman, a big real estate developer based in Boston. It had a smaller staff and so, making a virtue of necessity, it offered less straight news coverage of recent events and more news analysis. And it had almost none of the lighter content, like sports or entertainment, that its competitors put in the back section of each issue.Mr. Zuckerman brought in new editors and strengthened the emphasis on analysis. He mandated a new "back of the book," made up of practical advice for consumers on personal finance, health, technology, travel and education, an approach that grew indirectly into the rankings.The strategy worked. Readership rose and the magazine became highly profitable, according to analysts and former executives.But over the years, a lot of other magazines made similar changes, with more analysis and "news you can use," while U.S. News experienced rapid turnover among top editors. By the mid-1990s, many people at the magazine were suggesting that Mr. Zuckerman's attention had moved on to his other pursuits  — New York's Daily News, The Atlantic and, of course, his real estate business  —  and that U.S. News had lost much of its innovative edge."If Mort is engaged again," said Thomas R. Evans, who served as the magazine's president and publisher in the 1990s, "it's a good thing for the magazine because the guy just sees the world better than other people do."U.S. News says that at least one early sign of its online experiment is positive: at the outset, advertising on the automotive rankings site, which has thousands of pages, is sold out.In the printed magazine, "we used to get 500 pages a year of ads out of Detroit, and now we're down below 50," acknowledged Mr. Zuckerman, who writes a column for U.S. News and has the title of editor in chief.When it came to rating hospitals and colleges for a mass audience, U.S. News all but invented the field, but any number of Web sites, magazines and newspapers rank cars and electronics. Rating consumer products "is crowded territory," said Lee Rainie, a U.S. News managing editor in the 1990s, "so it will be tougher to establish the kind of authority" the magazine has with colleges.  Current editors at the magazine agree.To be successful, U.S. News has to find a broad audience that is not comfortable with magazines aimed at enthusiasts, and wants some of the nuts-and-bolts practicality of Consumer Reports, but without the online subscription charges.  "They probably should have done something like this a lot sooner," Mr. Evans said.A picture caption on Monday with an article in Business Day about efforts by U.S. News & World Report to build a business in information and ratings misstated the other journalism interests of its owner and editor in chief, Mortimer B. Zuckerman. Although he is indeed the publisher of The Daily News, he no longer owns The Atlantic Monthly. (He sold it to David G. Bradley, a Washington businessman, in 1999.)The father and son team who run the opulent Cipriani restaurants in Venice and New York avoided prison time and the automatic forfeiture of the company's liquor licenses, which could have shut down their New York restaurants, as they were sentenced yesterday after their guilty pleas this summer on charges of tax evasion.In a hearing in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, in which neither man said a word, Arrigo Cipriani, 75, the patriarch of the family, was sentenced to conditional discharge for three years without being supervised by the Department of Probation, according to a plea agreement with the Manhattan district attorney's office. The conditional discharge means he is free to return to Italy, where he lives and where his father opened Harry's Bar in Venice in 1931.Under the agreement, he pleaded guilty in July to one felony count of violating the tax law, which could have resulted in up to four years in prison.His son, Giuseppe, 42,  was sentenced to three years' probation after pleading guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the tax law, which could have brought up to a year in jail.Both men, who are Italian citizens, according to their lawyer, and three Cipriani business entities agreed to pay $10 million in outstanding state and city taxes and other penalties. The business entities also pleaded guilty, through their lawyer, to a felony tax charge.Under state law, someone convicted of a felony is barred from certain civic rights and privileges like voting or holding various licenses, including a liquor license.But in a condition of the plea deal, Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, agreed not to oppose the Ciprianis' requests for what are called certificates of relief from civil disabilities for the father, the son and the three corporations. Those certificates allow them to keep their liquor licenses, and Justice John Cataldo approved five such certificates yesterday.That is no guarantee, however, that the State Liquor Authority will not take action on its own to revoke the  licenses. A spokesman for the authority, William Crowley, said yesterday that the authority was investigating the Cipriani licenses. He said the authority was considering whether the "underlying conduct" involved in the felony conviction showed that the Ciprianis and their companies lacked the moral character needed for a  license.He said the authority was also looking at why Arrigo Cipriani's name was not on the licenses. "Anybody with a financial interest or who can make day-to-day managerial decisions should be on the license," Mr. Crowley said.Chris Giglio, a spokesman for the Ciprianis, said they had begun what he called settlement talks with the Liquor Authority. A lawyer for Cipriani, Warren B. Pesetsky, said he hoped any actions by the authority would not involve revoking the liquor license. "Hopefully, it will be just fines," he said. "They're not going to disappear, but I would like to believe and do believe that ultimately it won't involve anybody losing a license."Some legal experts said yesterday that retaining their liquor licenses through the certificates of relief was a major coup for the Ciprianis and their lawyers."Really? That's amazing," Leonard Fogelman, a lawyer who often practices before the Liquor Authority, said when told about the certificates. "To be convicted of a rather serious felony charge and then obtain a certificate of relief takes some doing."Stanley S. Arkin, a lawyer for the Ciprianis, bristled at any implication that the Ciprianis had received favorable treatment. "I don't think light's a nice word," Mr. Arkin said. "It's a wonderful business. We got to a point where there were some tax issues, and we've resolved them all. We're paying a lot of money. Hopefully we've done our penance and now we'll go on and conduct our business."The Ciprianis have also agreed to the appointment of a monitor, Jeffrey M. Kaplan, who Mr. Arkin said was an expert in the field of corporate compliance, to oversee their taxes.Benjamin Brafman, who represented Peter Gatien, the former owner of the Limelight, in a tax evasion case in the late 1990s, said that obtaining a certificate of relief was not commonplace, but was sometimes done in cases whose economic stakes were high, because, for instance, a business has many employees or cannot pay the penalties if it goes under, and when prosecutors were satisfied that the punishment was otherwise sufficient. "Generally it's given in cases where the government and the court recognize that there are viable businesses that are essentially law-abiding companies and employees whose jobs are at stake, or revenue that you should be entitled to continue to earn," Mr. Brafman said."It's not very common, but it's not uncommon for good criminal lawyers to seek that kind of relief in these cases," he said. He said Mr. Gatien had obtained a certificate of relief and his club continued  for some years, but his liquor license was ultimately revoked by the Liquor Authority."Their objective was to close him down, and they ultimately succeeded," Mr. Brafman said. But he said he would draw a distinction between Cipriani, with its mainstream restaurants like the Rainbow Room and Rainbow Grill, at Rockefeller Plaza, and Cipriani Dolci, at Grand Central Terminal, and a downtown disco club like the Limelight, "that caters to people who have an alternate lifestyle."IT'S hard to be sure who's double-crossing whom in "Chancer," the British television series that made Clive Owen a star in 1990. As "Dynasty" plots unfold on "Masterpiece Theater" sets, thick accents and mixed motives combine to make some scenes of this business soap opera almost unintelligible. But be patient. By the third hour of the 13-episode first season, now available on DVD, the ethically challenged "Chancer" characters distill themselves into a fascinating ensemble, providing excellent support for Mr. Owen's teasing, memorable performance.He plays Stephen Crane, a brash investment banker in London at the height of the greedy 1980s. At least that's his job at the start. Soon he leaves the city — not entirely of his own volition — to work as an adviser to Douglas Motors, a genteel family business whose product, the luxury Leopard automobile, is made with such care that nobody involved with it is likely ever to turn a profit.Crane's foil at Douglas Motors is the patriarch Robert Douglas (played by Benjamin Whitrow), an elder statesman whose values make him a naïf in the world of high-risk banking. "It's possible to do one's job and be a human being at the same time," he says, a truism that "Chancer" tries to disprove for the next 12 hours.The Douglas family takes Crane to its tweedy bosom. Douglas likes Crane's "fight." Daughter Victoria (Lynsey Baxter) just likes Crane. So does Jo Franklyn (Susannah Harker). Her father (Peter Vaughan) is a Robert Maxwell figure whose Machiavellian machinations make Crane look like an innocent.Then there is Jimmy Blake (Leslie Phillips), Crane's former boss and nemesis, possibly cast because Oscar Wilde was unavailable. Blake is fey, fussy and without conscience or caring, except where his automobile is concerned. "If you so much as dribble on my chromium," he tells his assistant, "I shall disembowel you.""Chancer" is full of lines that call attention to themselves. "Bitter?" a barkeep asks an auto mechanic. "No," comes the response. "Just sad."In the same pub, Robert Douglas complains that it's so loud, "you can't hear yourself drink."Such self-conscious cleverness would get old if it weren't served up in small doses, among business takeovers, marital strife, life-changing wagers and romantic dalliances. There's so much going on that it's hard to take any of it seriously, which is the point. "Chancer" is a perfect vehicle for the young Mr. Owen. Known for what The New York Times has called his "volcanic charisma" in movies like "Closer" and "The Children of Men," Mr. Owen reins it in here. His Crane is a good-humored and highly stylized scalawag.His character has odd rhythms, starting and stopping sentences in unexpected ways, and occasionally breaking television's "fourth wall." Watching Victoria toss his suitcase out of her car as she drives away, leaving him on a lonely country lane, Mr. Owen practically does a dance step as he says, addressing the camera, "It's love!"Of course, it's not; Stephen Crane couldn't possibly love anyone as much as he loves himself. But tell that to Blake's secretary, around whom Crane channels 007. (Mr. Owen was at one point shortlisted for the big British prize that starts with "B" — Bond, not Booker) Or tell it to anyone who likes Elvis or Nicolas Cage; Mr. Owen could be their love child."Chancer" ends with a degree of sincerity, achieved at some cost to comedy. But it's not the earnest moments you'll remember; it's the cynicism and skulduggery. Both are served up with a wink by Mr. Owen. And that is itself a form of sincerity. No matter how many people his character tries to con, this actor never seems to be conning the audience.SUSAN STEWART AN arm smashes through a magician's hat on the cover of the latest issue of BusinessWeek, highlighting an article about Bear Stearns's inability to conjure a rabbit to fix its hedge funds. The image may be eye-catching, but some readers may be more arrested by the new logo for the magazine, which hits shelves today with an editorial redesign.BusinessWeek, owned by the McGraw-Hill Companies, is looking for some magic of its own to raise circulation and keep advertisers interested. The Internet has hurt business magazines in particular, and the new BusinessWeek format — which includes more news summaries and fewer lifestyle articles — is meant to be more Weblike."We're seeing a reader who is much busier than ever," said Stephen J. Adler, editor in chief of BusinessWeek. "But if you really add tremendous value to the reader and they're deeply engaged in the material, the broad premise is, that's good for everyone: the consumer and the advertiser."The redesign comes from 18 months of planning, including a study of reader preferences. The main conclusions were that people wanted a format that was easier to navigate, as well as information culled from a variety of sources.The changes include sprinkling articles on topics of international interest throughout the magazine rather than confined to a separate section and dropping lifestyle coverage, with the exception of Robert Parker's popular wine column.Maria Bartiromo, the CNBC news anchor, will contribute her regular question-and-answer session with a well-known executive every week instead of every other week, and it will run in the front of the magazine rather than the back.All opinion articles have been moved to the back from the front, which is now devoted to news summaries. And the magazine will feature just two long articles a week, grouped together in the middle of the book.The redesign did not involve many changes online, but Mr. Adler said that more articles would be starting out online and ending up in the magazine. And he said that the magazine would start reprinting more comments from readers that come in through the Web.BusinessWeek provided The New York Times two advance copies yesterday, each missing one page that the magazine said included market-moving information.Generally speaking, times are tough for business magazines, far more than for other categories, like fashion and home décor publications, whose readers enjoy looking at glossy pictures at their leisure. Last month Time Inc. shut Business 2.0 amid a downturn in advertising revenue.And while BusinessWeek still seems to be in fine health, the magazine did fall behind Forbes in circulation in the first half of the  year, with circulation down 1.2 percent, to 919,343 paid readers.All business publications are facing more competition for readers since Condé Nast introduced Portfolio, its business publication, this year. And this summer when Rupert Murdoch purchased Dow Jones & Company, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal, he indicated that he planned to intensify the fight, too.Then there is the issue of why readers buy print publications, and whether the content they are buying can be consumed more easily or conveniently on the Internet."If you think about it," said Martin S. Walker, chairman of Walker Communications, a magazine consulting firm in New York,  "no one goes to the Web to see the latest Oscar de la Renta beautiful gown. You want to see it on a beautiful full-color magazine page. What works on the Web is news and information, and that is basically what business magazines are."From an advertiser's perspective, the new BusinessWeek is designed a bit more like a Web site. There are more opportunities for companies to buy ads near articles related to their industry, and the magazine is broken into chunks, with four separate tables of contents. Readers tend to linger on such tables, so the ad pages next to the start of each section could prove to be lucrative. There are also more ads at the front of the book.Borrowing another theme from the Web, the magazine has added a feature within articles called links, which summarize related articles from other publications. Several media outlets do the same thing within their pages, but it is more novel for a publication to do so right next to its own work."We're perfectly willing to aggregate, to go outside our circle, if there's something we find that would be useful to our readers," Mr. Adler said.BusinessWeek hired the Boston-based advertising agency Modernista! to help with the new look. The magazine had not changed its logo since the early 1990s, but the new version has a different typeface — which looks like block lettering — and no blue line underneath. BusinessWeek's last editor, Stephen B. Shepard, oversaw the previous redesign in 2003.Executives at advertising agencies said they were skeptical that a redesign could change BusinessWeek's outlook."BusinessWeek is sort of like my dad's magazine," said Peter Gardiner, a partner and chief media officer at Deutsch, an agency in the Interpublic Group. "It's sort of like you would expect to see a copy of the magazine in 'Mad Men,'" he added, referring to the new television program about advertising executives in 1960.Mr. Gardiner said that if he had been in charge of BusinessWeek's redesign, he would have discontinued the print edition and focused on the Internet.BusinessWeek's ad sales team has been previewing the changes with clients. David Laverty, chief marketing officer of the software company Cognos, said he liked what he had seen of the redesign; he said he knew that Cognos's chief executive reads BusinessWeek while traveling.At least as long as there is no Internet available on airplanes, Mr. Laverty said, BusinessWeek will still have a niche.
