Nearly 3,000 colleges offer classes in entrepreneurship, up tenfold in the last 20 years, according to the Kauffman Foundation, which is devoted to promoting  "a society of economically independent individuals."So which school is the right place for those  interested in starting their  own companies?Fortune Small Business spent seven months interviewing hundreds of entrepreneurs, professors, administrators, students and alumni to try to find out. The magazine answers the question this way:It found that the best places to  get an undergraduate education were Babson College, Indiana University, Syracuse University, the University of Arizona, and the University of Pennsylvania.The best places for  learning online were Boston University, the University of Houston at Victoria, the University of Wyoming, and Western Carolina University.For cross-disciplinary studies, the choices were Cornell, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Wake Forest.For graduate school, the top places were Babson, Harvard, Indiana University, M.I.T., Stanford, Syracuse, the University of Arizona, University of California at Berkeley, the University of California, Los Angeles, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the University of Pennsylvania.The top choices for executive education were Babson, Harvard, Northwestern, Stanford, the University of Chicago and the University of Texas at Austin.And for family business, the best places were  Babson, Baylor, Kennesaw State University, Loyola of Chicago, Northwestern and the University of Texas at El Paso.DOES PASSION TRUMP ALL? Maybe we have the whole approach to teaching entrepreneurship backward, George Gendron writes in Inc.Instead of teaching the subject to business majors, who then go out and try to find a niche to fill, wouldn't it be better to offer courses to people who are passionate about a potentially commercial idea — no matter what their major —  to give them the specific skills they need to turn their dream into a reality.That is the approach Mr. Gendron, who founded the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Program at Clark University in Massachusetts, is taking."The guiding principle of the program is a belief that the entrepreneurial skills we traditionally associate with certain discrete populations — engineers in Silicon Valley, for example — have become vital life skills for everyone in today's globally competitive marketplace and rapidly changing culture," writes Mr. Gendron who was the editor of Inc. for 20 years. "And so this undergraduate program was not designed to attract management majors, although we do get many of those students. Rather, we chose as our mission to complement a rigorous education in the arts and sciences."The school only offers a minor in entrepreneurship, meaning that students must take the majority of their courses in other disciplines."The goal is simple: to encourage these students to follow their passion, whatever that might be, but to marry those studies with a set of skills — from salesmanship to an understanding of the principles of market research to the ability to lead and work in teams — that will dramatically improve the likelihood that they'll be able to create an economically sustainable life around that passion," Mr. Gendron writes.FREE TO LOOK You don't need to  take a course to benefit from the online learning available at the world's universities. Just  rummage around their Web sites.For example  the London School of Economics site has copies of business plans for companies that plan to offer everything from venture capital consulting to customized takeout pizzas.CREDENTIALS The article is called,  "Do you need a degree to be a successful business owner?" and the author, Jennifer Mattern of J.H. Mattern, a public relations firm, is quick to answer her own question with "obviously the simple answer is 'no,' because others have gone on to run highly successful businesses without a formal education."But Ms. Mattern  makes an intriguing point."What I hear a lot of people say (usually kids who start businesses at home online, and who haven't even finished high school yet) is that if so-and-so could do it without college (insert any ridiculously successful dropout entrepreneur here), so can anyone else. What they neglect completely is that the cases they cite are actually extremely rare. Banking on being the exception to the rule is very likely a large contributing factor to the overwhelming number of small businesses that fail within their first one to three years."LAST CALL Getting (a little bit) mad may actually help your thinking, according to Psychology Today.While "strong physiological arousal has detrimental effects on cognitive functioning," Wesley Moons of the University of California at Santa Barbara told Jennifer Garfinkel, in cases of moderate anger "people are motivated to think carefully about the information available to them."Apparently it's possible to  be a level-headed hothead.Philip B. Corbett, who oversees language issues for the newsroom, answered readers' questions Oct. 29-Nov. 2.Mr. Corbett, a deputy news editor, is in charge of revisions in the newsroom's style manual, and he handles questions from colleagues and readers about language and usage in The Times. He also oversees After Deadline, a weekly in-house critique of writing and editing in the paper.He began wrestling with thorny grammar and obscure prose while majoring in Greek and Latin at Harvard, but eventually abandoned the classics for journalism. He worked at a group of Boston-area weeklies, then at The Cape Cod Times and The Providence Journal, before joining The New York Times in 1990 as a copy editor on the metropolitan desk.In addition to his language duties, Mr. Corbett works on the news desk, which oversees the newsroom's night operation and reviews articles and headlines for the front page.Several other editors have answered questions in this column, including Executive Editor Bill Keller, Obituaries Editor Bill McDonald, Assistant Managing Editor Glenn Kramon, Director of Copy Desks Merrill Perlman, Metropolitan Editor Joe Sexton, Living Editor Trish Hall, Investigations Editor Matthew Purdy, National Editor Suzanne Daley, Digital News Editor Jim Roberts, Culture Editor Sam Sifton and Associate Managing Editor Charles Strum. Their responses and those of other Times editors are on the Talk to the Newsroom page.These discussions will continue in future weeks with other Times editors.Attention to GrammarQ. What's with all the grammatical errors in The Times?  I grew up hearing that I should polish my English grammar by reading The Times, but over the past couple of years I've gotten the impression that many of your writers must not even have graduated from high school!Particularly striking is the number of errors relating to agreement between noun and verb, i.e. number errors.Tell me there is hope for The Times.  The rest of the country is sliding back to grade school output.— Peter KurzA. I get versions of this question all the time, and I'm sure I'll see more this week, so I may as well try to tackle it now.Often, as with Mr. Kurz's note, the question includes some variation of the everything-was-better-long-ago theme. Many readers believe that there were fewer factual errors, fewer typos, fewer grammatical lapses in The Times back in the old days. I honestly don't know if this is true, though the perception worries me. I do take a bit of comfort in the fact that I've been hearing similar complaints for all of the 17 years I've been at The Times. Or maybe things really were better up until 17 years ago, when I was hired, and it's been straight down since then. Now that really is something to worry about.It's possible that there really are more mistakes now than there were 20 or 30 years ago. If so, I truly don't believe it's because today's writers or editors are less talented or conscientious than our predecessors. But I do think The Times today tries to do more than it did years ago. There is more late-breaking news, more variety of sections, topics and stories — and now, of course, there's the Web site, with constant updating of news and a whole new range of offerings. We also have more people handling all these tasks, but it may be that our effort to give readers more means that we fall short of perfection even more often than we once did.Still, I'm not sure. I also think it's possible that we're making, on average, just about the same number of dumb mistakes we've always made, but that we all have a tendency to think that things were better way back when.In any case, one thing is clear: we make a lot of mistakes. We make factual errors, which we try rigorously to correct in print and online. We misspell words, we have typos, and yes, sometimes our grammar is just awful. Some such mistakes are inevitable as we handle many tens of thousands of words every day, mostly on tight deadlines. But they should be rare, much rarer than they are. We're trying.And believe it or not, we're happy to have readers who are sophisticated enough to notice when we slip, and who care enough to let us know.The Best Stylebook?Q. My well-marked, well-used copy of The Times style manual ("Revised and Expanded Edition") was published in 2002, and I cannot find a more recent edition. The Associated Press manual is O.K., the Chicago Manual of Style is too cumbersome and The Elements of Style is a tad brief. Two questions, please … 1) what is your favorite style book, and, 2) are there plans to update and reprint a more current Times style manual?  Thank you.— Gerald M. SmithA. I'm glad to be reminded that many people outside the newsroom look to The Times, and our stylebook, for guidance in their writing (I've looked ahead to some of the questions coming in, and I know they won't all be so kind).The print version of our stylebook, by Bill Connolly and my predecessor and mentor Al Siegal, has not been revised since 2002. In the newsroom we rely on an online version, which I update (more or less) regularly. That version, unfortunately, is not currently accessible to the public.I get inquiries from time to time, but I don't know of any plans to do a new print edition any time soon. Another possibility would be to make the online version available, perhaps by subscription, but I know there are some technological issues that would need to be resolved to make that feasible. It won't be my decision, but I can let my colleagues know of the potential interest among readers.As for other references, one that I rely on constantly is Bryan A. Garner's Modern American Usage. It's a lot heavier (and more expensive) than our handy guide, but it is comprehensive, thoughtful and very useful.The Serial CommaQ. I find it fascinating when I notice the various styles that are used in the English language. In particular, I am a criminal justice instructor for a university that has adopted the Gregg Reference Manual as its guiding format for papers. Just one quick example: using a comma after every item in a series within a sentence is required by the Gregg Reference Manual, but I find that almost universally, no newspaper follows this rule. Can you shed some light on how this came about or what your thinking is on these diversions of rules?— Wally MountzA. I debated whether to start off with a broad, philosophical question, or a more narrowly focused one, and decided that comma usage was just the topic for a Monday morning.For those unfamiliar with the controversy, Mr. Mountz is describing the so-called serial comma. Most book and academic editors, using style guides like the Chicago Manual of Style, will publish sentences like this: The candidate promised lower taxes, higher spending, and universal happiness. Most newspapers would print the sentence like this: The candidate promised lower taxes, higher spending and universal happiness. Note that there's no comma before the "and."I haven't researched the question, but I suspect that journalists' aversion to the additional comma arose in the old days when setting type was laborious and expensive. If you already have an "and," why bother with a comma, too? The practice persists, from habit and perhaps from the sense that fewer commas make prose seem more direct and rapid  — qualities we journalists prize in our writing.There are a few cases, however, where we have to make an exception for clarity. For example: The candidate promised lower taxes, higher spending, and ice cream and cake. Without a comma after "spending," the sentence would be a jumble.Collective Nouns: Singular or Plural?Q. Why do we now see treatment of "couple" (as in a married couple) as a plural noun?— Richard C. ColemanQ.From today's Times online:  A team of travel editors and writers from The New York Times uncover affordable places to stay, eat, drink and shop in the Caribbean. Explore all 13 islands.Times editors and writers should stay at home until they learn that a collective singular noun should be followed by the appropriate predicate, in this case: A team...uncovers. I've spotted this error so often that I finally concluded that you folks have simply forgotten  what a collective noun is and that the subject dictates the verb to be used.— Jon SwanA.Both of these queries involve the use of collective nouns — words like team, couple, group. In a sentence, should they be construed as singular or plural?It's a trickier grammatical proposition than one might think. As the esteemed Times editor and language expert Theodore M. Bernstein wrote (in "Watch Your Language"): "Whether to treat collective nouns as singular or plural is a continuing source of perplexity. The British seem to resolve their doubts in favor of the plural; the Americans seem to resolve theirs in favor of the singular. Both should resolve them in favor of logic."As Bernstein suggests, context is important. If the sense is of one unit, viewed as a single entity, then the noun should generally be treated as singular. But if the idea is of a number of separate people or entities acting individually, the plural is often best.Our stylebook has a specific entry on "couple," since the question of singular or plural often arises:On the specific example offered by Mr. Swan — "A team of travel editors ... uncover" — I say, well, hmmnn. That's a good one. Is it one team, traveling en masse from island to island in search of fun and bargains? Or do we mean, in effect, "Many editors, working separately, uncover ..." I can argue it either way, but since "team" does inherently have the sense of a unit acting as one, I might be inclined to agree with Mr. Swan and go with the singular. Then again  ...Why So Squeamish?Q. The Times seems to have a tendency to want to talk about "offensive" words without ever using them. In Monday's paper alone, Edward Rothstein writes "the passage then gives way to an obvious (in retrospect) sexual double entendre." How are readers supposed to know what this is? You've published articles about celebrities being criticized for using anti-gay "slurs," without indicating what they were; surely if it's important enough to write about, you should be able to tell us what the word is. Otherwise, don't publish the article  — you can't have it both ways. — Dr. Jennifer NussbaumA. How to handle sexual references and innuendo, vulgar language, racial or ethnic slurs, and other potentially offensive material is an issue we deal with almost every day. And yes, I guess we do want to have it both ways. We want to report on issues that are important and interesting to our varied and sophisticated readership. But we don't want to offend any of those readers gratuitously, and we don't want the tone of our writing to echo everything you might hear in a locker room, a bar fight or, for that matter, on late-night TV. My mother reads The Times, as does my 11-year-old son. Of course, we can't and don't edit the paper specifically to shield the most sensitive of our readers. But if we're going to offend any of them, it has to be for a compelling reason.As our stylebook says in the entry on "obscenity, vulgarity, profanity":In general, if a writer and editor think that the use of vulgar or otherwise offensive language is absolutely crucial to an article, they consult with me or my colleagues on the news desk. We discuss how important and newsworthy the reference is, how offensive it might be to readers, and whether it's possible to convey the information while avoiding the offensive language. Most of the time it's quite possible to manage without the word, phrase or description in question, so that's what we do.Occasionally we decide that the use of a word or reference, however offensive to some, is important and warranted in the context. One prominent example was in our reporting on the Bill Clinton/Monica Lewinsky case and the Starr report. That coverage included language that would not normally appear in The Times. But the editors believed that, given the political significance, it was important to convey the details. Even then, explicit references were weighed carefully and kept to a minimum.We also set the bar very high for racial, ethnic and sexual slurs. Reporters often argue for quoting such language, contending that the verbatim repetition is necessary to convey the tone or nature of the slur. Such arguments are usually unpersuasive. Our readers, unfortunately, know very well what constitutes a racial slur; under most circumstances, it's enough to report that one was used. Publishing such offensive language repeatedly can coarsen the tone of our writing, andperhaps further desensitize others to the use of the terms.I didn't track down the Harry Potter reference in the article that Dr. Nussbaum referred to, so I'm not sure whether we could have been more direct without being gratuitously offensive. (I did read all the books, so I know it wasn't anything very explicit, in any case!) In general, though, the same principles would apply to double-entendres and other sexual references. We don't shy away from reporting what our readers want or need to know, but we try to do so in language that maintains the sophisticated and civil tone of The Times.The Use of Middle NamesQ. Hello! As a 50-year Times reader now living in Florida, I have always been confused about what appears to be a policy of  always using the middle name of a person (as in Daniel Patrick Moynihan) and not with another (as in Al Gore).Can you clear this up for me? Thanks. — Philip Monger, MiamiA. In handling names, we try to be as consistent as possible, but we also have to consider a person's preference (it's his name, after all) and what will seem familiar to our readers.For most people, the standard reference is first name, middle initial, last name. That's in keeping with the tone we strive for in the news columns: not starchy but traditional. We don't try for a chatty style peppered with nicknames, slang or faddish expressions.But if a well-known person prefers to use a nickname or short form, we do so: Bill Clinton, Al Gore. And if someone is regularly referred to with a full middle name, we will reflect that, as with Daniel Patrick Moynihan. (We haven't been entirely consistent with him, though: a quick check of our archives reveals 5,507 references to Daniel Patrick Moynihan, but 325 to Daniel P. Moynihan).Copy Editing in the Internet EraQ. Are there any copy editing errors or concerns that occur exclusively in the online version The New York Times? Anything you didn't have to think about back in the all-print-only-print days?Is copyediting like dancing  — a young person's endeavor? After all, the mind and the eye age over time, just like a dancer's body. Do you find that as you get older, you are less likely to catch that stray punctuation mark or that duplicated word?  — Simon LeFrancA. I am a great admirer of good copy editing. But I have never before heard it compared to dancing.Perhaps I say this because I'm not getting any younger myself, but I think most copy editors get better as they get older. You can always adjust the type size on your computer if your eyesight isn't what it was. But there's no easy or quick way to accumulate the vast store of knowledge that our best copy editors have  — or the experience and judgment they bring to their task. Google is an amazing thing, but long before Google, you could stand up in any good newsroom at night and and yell out something like: "When was Millard Fillmore first elected?"  — and be pretty sure you'd get the right answer, maybe from more than one direction at once.As for the Web site, I think the biggest challenges it poses for copy editors involve time and volume. Newspaper editors have always worked under tight deadlines  — sometimes that's the only thing that really gets us working  — but with the Web, which can be updated constantly, the deadline is always here. And our Web site includes a huge amount of material beyond what appears in the paper.Our Web editors are always balancing the desire to be fast with the need to maintain our high standards of editing. Generally, I think we do a good job with the balancing act, though there are times when an error will slip through that makes us wish we had taken a few extra minutes. Of course, that happens in print, too  — and if it's in the final edition, we have to live with the goof for 24 hours. At least on the Web, errors can be fixed as soon as they're spotted.Some Web-only features  — especially our blogs  — raise special issues for editors. Like everything on nytimes.com, blogs are held to the same standards of accuracy and fairness that we apply to news articles. But the tone and writing style can be very different  — informal, personal, even quirky. In this way they are more like columns, or some of the personal essays in sections like Thursday Styles. Editors have to be able to allow a blogger's voice and style to come through, while still maintaining Times standards.Acronyms and CapitalizationQ. I am under the impression that reporters and editors have been bowing to spell-checker software that does not understand the concept of an acronym, and thus we see Nafta instead of NAFTA [but at leastnot Dna instead of DNA].  Is this New York Times policy for some reason?A. This is not a case of spell-check run amok. It arises from our stylebook rule on acronyms  — that is, abbreviations that are pronounced as a word. (Yes, folks, we have written rules on acronyms. And ordinal numbers. And umlauts. And did I mention the whole "serial comma" issue?)For acronyms up to four letters long, we use all capital letters: NATO, for instance. But for acronyms of five letters or more, we just capitalize the first letter, as in Nafta or Unicef. That's because a story filled with long, all-cap expressions looks strange on the page, as though someone were shouting at you: NAFTA, I say! NAFTA, NAFTA, NAFTA!Of course, in some cases, that's the whole idea. Companies and other groups love to use capital letters and other typographical devices to make their names stand out. We try to balance accuracy and consistency with what looks best on the page or screen.I've heard complaints about the application of this rule to Nascar and C-Span (a close call because of the hyphen), but this is the first Nafta-related query I've received.The Consensus on ConsensusQ. Is the phrase "general consensus" gaining a foothold in published media? I was shocked to see it used in The New Yorker after we've been told for years that it's a redundancy.  — Patti GarberA. What do you expect if you read a carelessly edited rag like The New Yorker? (I'm joking, of course.)I agree  — as, I think, do most references  — that "general consensus" is redundant. In fact, I included this note earlier this year in After Deadline, an in-house critique of our writing and editing, under the heading "Tautological Redundancies":Still, these issues can be difficult. Some expressions eventually become so universal  — even if they are illogical, redundant or seemingly ungrammatical  — that it begins to seem pedantic to object to them. But for now, I'm holding the line on "general consensus."Grammatical Errors and SolecismsQ. You are introduced, in this week's "Talk to the Newsroom,"  as the man who "oversees language issues."  Hmm. Do you approve of the use of "issues" in this sense?  Do you also allow it as a substitute for "problems"?   I don't.Over the years I have occasionally written to The Times to point out grammatical errors and solecisms.  These are never acknowledged.  I wonder, in fact, if you still employ qualified proofreaders.  Your writers have great difficulty getting "lie" and "lay", in their various forms, right, and proofreaders, if there are any, do not intervene.As a student of Latin and Greek, you must agree that "proactive," as a supposed intensifier of "active," is an etymological monstrosity, and marks the user as a trendy but poorly educated writer. Does The Times still recognize the difference between "healthy" and "healthful"?Your job must be difficult. Don't give up. — Tom FarrellyA. Tough crowd.I wasn't completely happy with the phrase "language issues," but I wanted something broad enough to cover all the various topics that arise. In choosing this word, I was relying on the sixth definition listed in Webster's New World College Dictionary (our preferred dictionary in the newsroom): "a point, matter, or question to be disputed or decided."As for our many lapses, grammatical and otherwise, I'll refer readers back to my very first response, on the question of whether there are more errors in The Times now than years ago. I'm sorry, Mr. Farrelly, that you haven't received personal replies when you point out an error  — we do get a lot of such comments, and it's not always possible to reply individually. But please keep letting us know. I frequently use such reader comments as topics for my in-house After Deadline critique. In fact, I pointed out yet another lie/lay error in one recent critique. You're right: we stumble over that far too often, and it looks amateurish.I'm in your camp on "proactive." But I'm afraid, Mr. Farrelly, we part ways on healthy vs. healthful.For readers who haven't given it much thought: some strict constructionists insist that "healthy" should refer only to someone or something in good health: "a healthy boy." They say that something conducive to good health should be described as "healthful": "a healthful diet," not "a healthy diet." Bryan A. Garner, for example, whose work I praised earlier, takes this view.But I'm persuaded by evidence like that cited in the American Heritage Dictionary, which says this: "This distinction, though tenaciously supported by some critics, is belied by citational evidence — healthy has been used to mean 'healthful' since the 16th century. Use of healthy in this sense is to be found in the works of many distinguished writers, with this example from John Locke being typical: 'Gardening . . . and working in wood, are fit and healthy recreations for a man of study or business.' "Those Pesky Apostrophes and SemicolonsQ.  I am a stickler for the proper use of apostrophes, and am dismayed about what seems like an accelerating lack of adherence to standard usage of apostrophes, not only throughout the culture in general, but also specifically by the writers and editors for The New York Times. In the last few years, I've noticed more and more misused apostrophes in The Times, in both the print and online editions. In the last week or so, I even saw "it's" (when it should have been "its") on the Web site's home page. Even worse, it stayed there for hours without being corrected!Isn't proper usage of apostrophes fairly basic? What's your take on this issue?  — Michael CowanQ. As a member of the baby boom generation (I'm 60 years old), daughter of an English teacher, an English major myself, and a former print journalist, I'm particularly troubled that the Times has dropped the use of semicolons in what are now run-on sentences. (The pitcher threw two fast balls, the catcher caught them both.) Can you tell me how this decision was made? — Deb Adler, Delmar, N.Y.A. I assure these readers that we have made no decision to abandon the proper use of apostrophes, semicolons or any other punctuation marks. Independent clauses in a single sentence with no conjunction should indeed be separated by a semicolon, not a comma. "It's" as a contraction for "it is" should have an apostrophe; "its" as a possessive should not.I know it. You know it. I'm quite sure that every editor here knows it, too. But, as I've said, lapses do occur, more often than we would like. And our readers, who expect better, are disappointed when we stumble on the basics.Fairness and ImpartialityQ. Why does The Times continue to use the term "insurgents" when alluding to terrorist activity in Iraq? "Insurgents" presumes an organized group rebelling against an existing power structure. I believe it came into use because the Bush administration wanted to avoid "guerrilla" and its connotations with the Vietnam War, and wanted to give the impression of one group working to disrupt Democratic Iraq. But to my view, "guerrilla" is more neutral and more descriptive of the actual behavior involved since guerrillas by definition are involved in irregular fighting and are out of uniform, while insurgents by definition are leading an insurrection, which I'm not sure is actually the case. — Jennifer CrichtonQ. As a writer and avid New York Times reader, I have often been disappointed by The Times's decision to forgo usage of the word "torture" in describing acts committed at the hands of Americans. Americans who have broken detainee's legs with baseball bats, raped detainees in confinement, hung detainees by their arms and beaten their legs over the course of four days until detainees have died, have, in your language, merely committed "abuse." It is only once detainees are exported to Syria or Egypt that they undergo "torture," including being beaten with shredded cables. Is there a difference? At what point will "abuse" be elevated in your language to "torture"? Regarding this issue, language doesn't just form the debate, language is the debate, and there has been a severe reluctance to call our actions what they actually are, to our national detriment. — Sharr WhiteQ. I have a quick question for you that may not be your bailiwick, but I've had trouble getting it answered elsewhere.  As an American living in Spain, I follow the news in both Spanish and English.  As you can imagine, terrorism is the subject of many articles in both languages.  Yet, when it comes to word usage, I notice a striking difference.  In Spain and in Spanish, the Basque organization known as ETA is widely referred to as a terrorist organization.  In fact The New York Times' sister newspaper, Madrid's El Pais, regularly uses the terms "organizacion terrorista" and "banda terrorista" regarding ETA.  Why then is it that The New York Times constantly refers to ETA as a "Basque separatist organization" or "Basque separatist movement"?  You can easily understand the different connotations evoked by the two terms.  "Terrorist" conjures up car bombs, assassinations and fear while "separatist" is a much less offensive term suggesting a legitimate political undertaking.  For most people in Spain, ETA clearly belongs in the first camp.  What's The Times's reasoning for its usage? — Peter NagelvoortQ. Have you reviewed, and is there a logic, to the term "suicide bomber"? Consider that the self-declared basic goal of such people is not to die but to kill.  The "bomber" part of The Times's usage refers only to the means chosen.  That the killer often dies in the process is incidental to the means chosen by the killer.  Thus, we would not describe an American soldier who dies while attempting to protect fellow troops as, say, a "suicide grenade thrower." I wonder what your colleague reporters and editors think of a well-established phrase that I consider misleading and sanitizing.  It is by reading their published factual descriptions printed in The Times that I understand both the goals and the means involved. — G. KlajmanQ. I am troubled by The New York Times's follow today of the Blackwater massacre,"Under Siege, Blackwater Takes on Air of Bunker." It is Orwellian, not honest. Your article describes Blackwater's men as "employees," "guards," "workers," and "contractors" . . . but never once as "mercenaries." Any reason why The New York Times refuses to use this proper noun and synonym? — John Buster, Cambridge, Mass.A. I've grouped these different questions together to illustrate one of the toughest problems our reporters and editors confront: how to write about divisive, politically charged and often inflammatory subjects while sticking to the facts and maintaining an objective, impartial tone. Sometimes it seems like an impossible feat.Torture, abuse or alternative interrogation methods? Terrorist, extremist, militant, guerrilla or separatist? Contractors or mercenaries? Domestic spying or terrorist surveillance?Readers challenge us constantly over our reporting on these topics, often zeroing in on specific words or phrases that they believe reveal a bias or obscure the truth. Iraq, terrorism and the Israeli/Palestinian conflict are the biggest sources of such controversy. But we also get frequent complaints about our reporting on domestic politics from readers who assert that our language is loaded or tilted. Neither side in these controversies seems fazed by the fact that, in most cases, we hear almost equally from both sides. The Times coddles the Palestinians; The Times is unfair to the Palestinians. We're dupes of the Bush administration; we're shills for the Democrats. Of course, the mere fact that we take heat from all sides doesn't mean that we're getting it right. But it does show how hard the job is.Each case is different, but there are certain broad principles we keep in mind. Most important, we editors rely on the judgment, experience and accuracy of our correspondents and trust them to report events fairly and completely. It would be absurd for me, sitting here in Manhattan, to try to explain to Alissa Rubin in Baghdad, Steve Erlanger in Jerusalem or Carlotta Gall in Kabul what constitutes terrorism or how best to describe events in those troubled places. They see it, they understand it, and their only goal is to help us know what's happening. Assigning them a set of terms that they must use or avoid would not help their efforts, I'm sure.We try to report facts rather than simply apply labels. Take the case of Hamas, the Palestinian organization that won recent elections but that the United States, the European Union and Israel consider a terrorist group. Hamas members have often carried out or condoned suicide bombings that kill civilians. Those are terrorist acts, and no reporter or editor at The Times would shy away from that description. Hamas also runs clinics and other social services. So, if Hamas is a terrorist group, are those terrorist clinics, staffed by terrorist doctors? Better to state the facts rather than merely relying on predetermined labels.It's often wise, when possible, to steer clear of words that have become freighted with political overtones, or have been adopted exclusively by one side or the other  — even if the words on their face may be factually defensible. One might make a lexicographical case for calling the Blackwater guards "mercenaries" (though generally a mercenary is paid to serve in a foreign army)  — but is there any doubt that the word carries a negative tone that goes beyond simply stating a fact?On the domestic front, the two sides in the abortion debate have long employed terms specifically chosen to advance their positions. In the news pages, we rigorously avoid loaded terms like "pro-life" and "pro-choice." We strive for more neutral, factual terms like "opponents of abortion" and "abortion-rights groups."Our stylebook also warns writers against subtler problems of bias that can creep in through word choice. Here's one passage:I'm not sure this little explanation will do much to persuade or mollify our strongest critics on any side of these controversies. But it may give the rest of our readers some insight into how we wrestle with the problem.Ms., Miss and Mrs. (and Mr., Too)Q. How does The New York Times decide whether to identify a woman as Ms. or Mrs.? For that matter, why does The Times use Mrs. at all? I find the continued use of Mrs. alongside Ms. to be baffling, given that the "Ms."option was created to avoid having to distinguish women according to their marital status as either Miss or Mrs.  What is the rationale? — Rebecca DavisQ. I remember hearing that it took The New York Times quite some time to abandon the titles "Mrs." or "Miss" and start using the all-inclusive "Ms." in its articles. So why is it that certain women, particularly Hillary Clinton and Laura Bush, are still referred to as Mrs. Clinton and Mrs. Bush in The Times? I personally think it's kind of a slap in the face to Hillary Clinton  — she's one of the top candidates for president, and it shouldn't matter whether she is married or not, or to whom. It does make me wonder, though, whether some public figures have expressed to The Times that they prefer a certain title.  — Emily LinerA. Our style is to use "Ms." unless a woman chooses to use "Mrs." or "Miss." That rule applies both to private individuals and to public figures.Aside from these inquiries about "Ms.," I've been surprised not to get more questions about our use of courtesy titles. After all, our continued insistence on Mr., Ms., Dr., etc., is perhaps our most obvious stylistic difference from other news organizations, which generally use bare surnames for second references to people. The Times's style seems strange, at first, to every reporter or editor coming here from another paper.I don't know whether the lack of comment in this forum reflects approval of the courtesy titles, or just familiarity or apathy. I do hear occasionally from reporters who'd like to drop them. Most recently, when we reduced the width of our pages, several people suggested eliminating courtesy titles to save space (it wouldn't really help).Perhaps I'm tradition-bound, but this is one quirk of Times style that I would go to some lengths to defend. We strive for a tone that is literate, civil and serious: not fussy or old-fashioned, but also not chatty or self-consciously hip. It's not an easy balance, and we don't always get it right. But I think the simple use of courtesy titles  — whether it's "Mr. Bush," "Mrs. Clinton" or "Ms. Rivera, a teacher from Queens"  — injects a note of thoughtfulness and civility into our pages. Amid the daily cacophony, that seems a worthy effort.Tangled PassagesQ. Can you translate this for me?I read The Times only online  — a Times Company retiree, I can't afford a print subscription  — and find such stuff as this nearly daily. Surely the print copy is better! — Jay GoleyA. I agree that the sentence is convoluted to the verge of incomprehensibility. And I was happy to find on checking our archive that in the final edition it had been changed, by the reporter or an editor, to this:Note that we now use three sentences to convey the complex set of ideas that we tried to handle in one sentence originally. This is a favorite theme of mine. In story after story, we subject readers to long, dense, complex sentences. Often they come one after another. I included this note to colleagues in one of our recent in-house critiques:Ted Bernstein, whom I've mentioned before, said simply this: "Generally it speeds reading if there is only one idea to a sentence."I don't hold out much hope of achieving that standard  — and of course Bernstein himself wouldn't try to enforce such a rule literally. But often we can vastly improve our readability if we just reduce the number of ideas in a sentence from, say, six to two.As for the question of "better" copy in the print edition than on the Web site: as I've noted, our Web editors are constantly balancing the need for speed with our insistence on high standards. In fact, this tension isn't new with the Web. In the print paper, too, often a late-breaking story gets a quicker editing job as we rush to put it into the first edition. By the final edition, editors have gone back and tried to make further improvements. It wouldn't serve our readers well to hold an important story out of several editions  — or off the Web for hours  — while we buffed and polished. But we don't want to publish a story that's not ready, either.It's amazing to see how our reporters can put a story together at lightning speed. And it's amazing what some of our copy editors can do to improve a story in 15 minutes. But of course, both reporters and editors can do even more if they have more time.Making Sense of NoneQ. This one drives me crazy. "None of the missing tools were found."  Shouldn't it be none … was?  And in the case of "None of the items are in stock." Shouldn't it be none … is? — Jeff HilleryQ. I realize this gets us into existential territory, but: None are or is? A quick search on your Web site yields the following results:So which is correct?  (And none of the above does NOT constitute a real answer.) — Vaishali PatelQ. Lost-cause department, but:  Won't you please re-fight the battle for "none" as a singular  —  "None is" (as in "not one is")?  Using it as a plural just sounds unkempt.A. When this question popped up for the third time, I realized there was no getting around it.Generations of readers, it seems, learned from their fifth-grade English teachers that "none" is singular, and that they must always write "none is," never "none are." And none of them, it seems, has/have forgotten the lesson.Still, life is sometimes more complicated than our fifth-grade English teachers let on. And grammar is, too. The answer to the "none is/none are" question turns out to be: well, that depends.Here's the usage note from the American Heritage Dictionary, which is in line with most other authorities on this point:Our stylebook, though lacking the impressive references to Dryden, Burke et al., explains further:Garner, too, suggests mentally substituting "not one" and "not any" in the sentence to see which better fits the sense, and using the singular or plural as appropriate.This is far from the only case in which a hard-and-fast grammar rule we were taught in grade school turns out to be less than sacrosanct, or even flat-out wrong. Perhaps I'll return to this theme in a later response.Colloquialisms Can Be TryingQ. I try and bite my tongue every time I hear someone say "try and," but I had to write after reading it in a recent article: "Mr. Rockefeller is up for re-election next year. No opponents have declared their intention totry and unseat him."What does the style guide have to say about "try and" vs. "try to"? — Derek SmithA. Here's a good example of the need to distinguish between colloquial or conversational usage and the more formal, standard English we strive for in our news writing.I think most sources agree that "try and" is colloquial or informal  — "nonstandard," to be more judgmental about it. It's extremely common in speech, though, and I for one would not consider it incorrect in conversation or other informal contexts.But our writers and editors should avoid this and other colloquial expressions in straight news articles. In The Times, colloquialisms should be used only in informal contexts  — perhaps a breezy feature, a column with a conversational tone, or in other places for special effect. It can be surprisingly hard even for careful editors to weed out all such references, though. For most readers, expressions like "try and" are so familiar from speech that they don't jump off the page or jar the ear assomething that must be fixed.An Unprecedented QuestionQ. First, thank you. The current discussion is very interesting, and I admire the evenness of your tone and the thoughtfulness of your answers.My question concerns the use of a pet-peeve word: unprecedented. A favorite editor, discouraging the word's use, once told me there's a precedent for almost everything. I agree, and yet I seem to see it cropping up more and more. The Times isn't as guilty on this score as many other publications, but even in your paper I see Moscow imposing unprecedented restrictions on election observers, an unprecedented federal aviation survey, unprecedented numbers of uninsured patients,and dairy costs at unprecedented levels. And that's just one day!I've had trouble getting reporters and editors in my own newsroom to address this language tic. Or maybe it's just me. What do you think? — Mark Matassa, SeattleA. Mr. Matassa is in good company with this pet peeve. Al Siegal, who literally wrote the book on The Times's style, also discouraged use of this word, for the same reason. Our stylebook elaborates:It may be that since Mr. Siegal's retirement last year, our vigilance on this point has eroded. I'll keep an eye out.The Eternal Numbers QuestionQ.  Please explain the now established use of "to ___ from ___" in expressing changes in numerical values, for example. It's something I've noticed over the last few years, but perhaps not before.  That is not a very easy way to scan the line, at least to my mind, as it is not progressive in time.  Is there some overriding reason to do it this way?After all, the movie is not called "To Eternity From Here."  — George HeibelA. Some of the questions I've received were predictable, but I was surprised to get at least three on this topic  — including one other with the same "To Eternity From Here" line.For readers who haven't noticed, The Times often uses this locution when describing an increase (or decrease): "The average price of a bushel of widgets on the Chicago Widget Exchange rose to $45, from $42." Some readers object to this phrasing, saying that logic and normal usage argue for the reverse: "The average price of widgets rose from $42 to $45."The reason for our practice is to prevent the reader, even momentarily, from mistakenly thinking that we are referring to a range  — that is, thinking that the price of widgets rose by amounts ranging from $42 to $45. I admit it's a fine point, but any clarity we can offer in stories dealing with numbers is an advantage.Here's the relevant entry in our stylebook:Burma or Myanmar?Q. The Times seems to have a policy of adjusting its geographical names in English, to follow the whims of governments, without regard to historical consistency or clarity. Thus, we have often recently read: "Myanmar, formerly Burma"  in news stories. The U.S. State Department says Burma, the BBC says Burma, Aung San Suu Ki says Burma.  It seems only The Times and the Burmese government say Myanmar, and more to the point, all English speakers know the country as Burma. You can be sure that the name of the country has not changed in French or Chinese. Why should the Burmese authorities, who of course can say what they like in Burmese, presume to change it in English?  And even if they so presume, why should The Times cooperate? — Vernon Eagle, BeijingA. There is no single, absolute standard or reference we use to determine when to adopt a new geographic name. Rather, we try to determine whether a new name has reached a level of wide acceptance and recognition across a range of sources, local and international. Recent examples of such changes in our stylebook include Mumbai for Bombay, and Chennai for Madras.The case of Myanmar is especially difficult because of the political background  — the newer name was adopted by the current military junta, one of the most repressive governments in the world. While we are certainly aware of the political context, we would try to avoid using a style decision like this to make, in effect, an editorial statement one way or another. (The Soviet Union, after all, was referred to as such even by those vehemently opposed to the government that adopted the name.)The United States government does indeed continue to use Burma, as do some news organizations. But a wide range of other sources  — including The Associated Press, Webster's New World Dictionary (our standard newsroom dictionary), the Columbia Gazetteer and National Geographic  — all use Myanmar.Words We Love and HateQ. In the past 18 months, two phrases have begun to appear routinely in Times news articles. While William Safire could, and perhaps already has, enlighten us as to the origins of the phrases. I find them to be examples of lazy writing. My foreign friends find them to be incomprehensible. Are they accepted by the gurus of style? — Robert B. HillQ.  Can I offer a personal pet peeve? The use of the word "famously" is becoming increasingly common, despite being either unnecessary or inaccurate in most cases. If something is, in fact, famous, you don't need to mention it. Most of the time, however, it's used to suggest insider knowledge, which is quite the opposite of the word's meaning. I like to count myself as one of The Times's sophisticated readers, but I was not aware of Richard S. Fuld Jr.'s "famously large appetite," mentioned in a Sunday business story. In fact, I had never even heard of Mr. Fuld, let alone his eating habits. Using the term "famously" in this instance seems to imply that I lack a basic level of information about a subject that is common knowledge. — Scott BrownA. Another favorite theme in our in-house critiques is identifying "words we love too much." Sometimes they're old standbys, cliches that journalists have overused for decades. Others are new or faddish expressions that we've latched on to, perhaps in hopes of looking hipper than we are. Sometimes one can trace the arc of such expressions in our archive, from a bare scattering of uses a decade ago to dozens a year now."Famously" is one word that I've singled out as in need of a long rest, for all the reasons Mr. Brown cites. Obviously, my pleas have been largely ignored, but perhaps the admonition from a dedicated reader will carry more weight.I hadn't taken note of the two phrases mentioned by Mr. Hill  — "gain traction" and "on the ground"  — but his point is well taken. Beyond being overused, "on the ground" also carries some political baggage, since President Bush is frequently at pains to cite commanders "on the ground" as he discusses his Iraq strategy. It's fine for us to quote him or others, but there is little need for us to use the phrase ourselves."Gain traction" has a faddish tone, and seems to be cropping up more and more in political coverage. We should ration it strictly.I should note that we very rarely "ban" words or phrases outright. I try to offer guidance, but in the end we depend on the judgment of our writers and editors to make the best choice in context. In fact, this is one of my few basic insights into editing. Learning the rules, complicated as they are, is the easy part; the hard part is knowing when to make exceptions.That said, here is a small sample of other words and phrases that my colleagues and I have identified as overworked and deserving a bit of rest:Omitting Courtesy TitlesQ. I'm curious about The Times's rules on when to use or not to use courtesy titles.  I still see The Times referring to a convicted and executed war criminal and mass murderer as "Mr. Hussein," yet Thomas Jefferson, Diego Velazquez, and other reasonably respected gents from long ago don't get a title.  Is the rule based strictly on how long someone has been dead, or are there other factors at work?  (And is it an urban legend that The Times once referred to the singer of "Paradise by the Dashboard Light" as "Mr. Loaf"?)And, if a related question is permitted, what about British titles of hono(u)r?  Is the Times being a good small-r republican by declining to call the ex-Beatle composer "Sir Paul" and the performer of "Crocodile Rock" "Sir Elton" (or should that be "Sir Reginald")? — Bruce TindallA. I double-checked to make sure this question wasn't a plant, since my friends know that I have strong views on what I refer to as the "Sir Paul" issue.But first, on courtesy titles for the dead. It's not a question of how long someone has been dead, and certainly not a judgment on character. The distinction we try to make is between references to a figure in the news (even if he's dead), and references to a historical figure in a historical context. For the former, we continue to use courtesy titles; for the latter, we generally drop them.It seems silly to refer to "Mr. Washington" or "Mr. Hitler." Those are easy calls. It's a bit trickier with more recent figures, but there too, we would generally drop the courtesy title when describing historical events. So, for example, Kennedy and Reagan would normally get no "Mr." On the other hand, Saddam Hussein is dead but still comes up mostly in daily news stories from Iraq. So we preserve the courtesy title, though presumably one day he too will lose it.The notion that The Times referred to Meat Loaf as "Mr. Loaf" is more or less apocryphal. As my colleague Merrill Perlman explained when she took questions in this forum, our one use of "Mr. Loaf" was as a joke, in a headline for a review of a movie about him. The headline was, "Is He Called Just Plain Meat Or Should It Be Mr. Loaf?"As for Paul McCartney, Elton John and similar cases: we did for a time routinely use their British titles, much to the dismay of some of our music critics. I always thought it sounded a bit odd, and when Tom Jones became "Sir Tom," I thought it was time to review the guidelines.It's not that I begrudge them the honor. But from a reader's perspective, it's jarring when someone who has been well known for years in a particular field is suddenly transformed into "Sir So-and-So."  And such references might contribute to an impression  — however unfair  — of The Times as slightly fusty or out-of-touch.So far, not a word of complaint from Sir Paul, Dame Judi or Lord Lloyd Webber. Here's the relevant passage from our stylebook:Need for ReformQ. Simple question: why on earth do you always use "reform" when what is properly meant is "change." A reform is by definition a change for the better (see the Oxford American Dictionary). Therefore when you write that President Bush is "reforming" something or other, you are endorsing his actions. "Reform" is inherently a prejudicial word and should rarely if ever be found in news columns. — Donald Mintz, Trumansburg, N.Y.A. A very good point. In fact, our stylebook says this:"Reform" is just one of many, many words that can give an unintended slant to an otherwise impartial news account. We try to be wary of it and similarly loaded terms. But "reform" is so ubiquitous, especially in political discourse, that it can be hard to eliminate completely.TransliterationQ. How does The Times decide on how to transliterate a foreign name or city? — Daniel LippmanQ. My question is about how The Times represents languages besides English. What transcriptions does The Times use for languages that don't use a Latin alphabet, like Russian and Arabic? — Alexander N. Reusing, Ann Arbor, Mich.Q. I've sometimes seen corrections of spellings of names of sources from foreign countries where the native language is not written in a Western alphabet. How do you decide which is the correct spelling?  I'm especiallycurious for cases where The New York Times picks one spelling and other newspapers pick another (e.g., al Qaeda vs. al Qaida). — Davida CharneyA.  Rendering of foreign names and terms, particularly from languages that use another alphabet, is a complex area in which I am far from an expert. Fortunately, we have editors on our foreign desk who are familiar with many languages, and I often defer to their judgments.In broad terms, we use standardized and fairly detailed systems for transliterating Russian and Chinese names. In Chinese, for example, we and most others use the Pinyin system, which I believe has largely replaced the older Wade-Giles system. But even here, there are many exceptions, for historical or other reasons.Arabic poses even greater hurdles, in part because pronunciations vary in different parts of the Arab-speaking world. Some of those renderings are decided case by case, and inconsistencies do pop up within and among various news organizations.One more example. Based on advice from a Korean-speaking editor and information from our research staff, I recently made changes in our stylebook rules on handling Korean names, in an effort to bring our usage in line with current practice among most Koreans. But even there, conflicts and inconsistencies persist  — for example, North Korea's official system for rendering names in the Latin alphabet differs from that generally used by South Koreans.Here, as in many areas, we try to take into account both what will be familiar or comprehensible to general readers, and what would seem most precise or correct to experts.A Final WordA. Many thanks to all who have read and participated in this forum all week. For me, it's been both fun and enlightening. The questions have been thoughtful, the chiding generally good-natured (and often deserved).My apologies to those whose questions I didn't have time to cover. Maybe next time.I'll end with a few rapid-fire comments on a handful of questions that I didn't get to during the week  — some of them raised by more than one reader.1. Data  — singular or plural?Our style allows both. It's more often used as singular in the broad sense of "information," more likely as plural in the original sense of "a collection of figures or facts."2. "Like" or "such as"?Our stylebook recommends "like" in this kind of expression: "Big companies like General Motors and Coca-Cola reported strong earnings." The idea is that "such as" sounds a bit stuffy, and indeed it is seldom used that way in conversation. But many readers object to "like" as illogical  — we're not referring to companies "similar to" General Motors and Coca-Cola, but to those very companies, as well as to others like them. I'm on the fence.3. DVD's or DVDs as the plural? M.D.'s or M.D.s?We recently changed our style rule to eliminate the apostrophe in the plural of abbreviations like DVDs. Many readers had objected to the old form, thinking that we didn't know the difference between plural and possessive. In fact, the rationale for the old rule was that in all-capital headlines, such abbreviations were hard to read: DVDS, TVS. But we use very few all-cap headlines these days, and I thought the time was right to change.However, we kept the apostrophe in the plural of abbreviations with periods, like M.D.'s, on the grounds that it just looks odd the other way.4. So, why periods in M.D. but not in DVD?That's more complicated, but here's one answer. Certain abbreviations, especially for terms in technology like (or such as) DVD, PC and PDF, are so widely used without the periods that we would seem out of step to retain the punctuation. In some cases, most people don't even know what the letters actually stand for. (There are also cases  — TV, for example  — where the letters don't actually stand for two separate words, and so don't take periods.)5. Insure? Ensure? What's the difference?Our stylebook reminds us that "ensure" means guarantee or make safe. "Insure" means buy or issue insurance. I suspect, though, that this rule is less than rigorously applied in our pages.This article was reported by Russ Buettner, Michael Powell and William K. Rashbaum and was written by Mr. Powell.If the rise of Bernard B. Kerik under the mentorship of Rudolph W. Giuliani was meteoric, the speed of his fall was breathtaking.In December 2004, President Bush nominated Mr. Kerik, a former New York police commissioner, to head the federal Department of Homeland Security. Seven days later, Mr. Kerik withdrew as a nominee.A cascade of questions followed about his judgment as a public official, not least that he had inappropriately lobbied city officials on behalf of Interstate Industrial, a construction firm suspected of links to organized crime.  Mr. Giuliani defended Mr. Kerik, a friend and business partner, whom he had recommended to the Bush administration. But he also tried to shield himself from accusations that he had ignored Mr. Kerik's failings."I was not informed of it," Mr. Giuliani said then, when asked if he had been warned about Mr. Kerik's relationship with Interstate before appointing him to the police post in 2000.Mr. Giuliani amended that statement last year in testimony to a state grand jury. He acknowledged that the city investigations commissioner, Edward J. Kuriansky, had told him that he had been briefed at least once. The former mayor said, though, that neither he nor any of his aides could recall being briefed about Mr. Kerik's involvement with the company.But a review of Mr. Kuriansky's diaries, and investigators' notes from a 2004 interview with him, now indicate that such a session indeed took place. What is more, Mr. Kuriansky also recalled briefing one of Mr. Giuliani's closest aides, Dennison Young Jr., about Mr. Kerik's entanglements with the company just days before the police appointment, according to the diaries he compiled at the time and his later recollection to the investigators.The additional evidence raises questions not only about the precision of Mr. Giuliani's recollection, but also about how a man who proclaims his ability to pick leaders came to overlook a jumble of disturbing information about Mr. Kerik, even as he pushed him for two crucial government positions."Rudy can fall for people big time, and sometimes qualifications are secondary to loyalty," said Fran Reiter, a former Giuliani deputy mayor who now supports Hillary Clinton. "If he gets it in his head he trusts you, he is extremely loyal."Mr. Giuliani has routinely met loyalty with loyalty, standing by political allies and friends in their darkest hours. Giuliani Partners, for example, his consulting firm, employs a high school friend, Msgr. Alan Placa, despite allegations that he sexually molested young men years ago.Mr. Giuliani has said he believes in his friend, who has denied the allegations and was not criminally charged.In Mr. Kerik's case, by the time Mr. Giuliani recommended him for the federal job, his administration knew that Mr. Kerik had acted on behalf of Interstate Industrial. It also knew that he had drawn criticism for a range of other incidents, from sending detectives to search for his lover's cellphone to using officers to research his autobiography.Mr. Kerik, who declined to speak about his troubles, now faces possible indictment on a range of federal felony charges, including perhaps tax evasion and bribery, stemming in part from his acceptance of $165,000 in renovations to his Bronx apartment paid for by Interstate. In June 2006, he pleaded guilty in the Bronx to state misdemeanor charges relating to the same renovations.Though Mr. Giuliani's rivals for the Republican presidential nomination have not made an issue of Mr. Kerik, his indictment could be a major embarrassment for Mr. Giuliani.Mr. Giuliani, who also declined to comment, still vigorously defends Mr. Kerik's performance as police commissioner. He told the grand jury that Mr. Kuriansky concluded that nothing in Mr. Kerik's background, including his ties to Interstate, precluded his appointment as police commissioner.But Mr. Giuliani now acknowledges that he should have re-examined his friend before recommending him to the White House and that his recommendation had indeed been a mistake.In 2000, more than half the mayor's cabinet had opposed Mr. Kerik's appointment to be police commissioner. His detractors had noted, among other concerns, that Mr. Kerik did not have a college degree, a department requirement at the time for captains and above.Mr. Giuliani waved off the dissenters. "I believe that the skill I have developed better than any other was surrounding myself with great people," Mr. Giuliani wrote in his 2002 book, "Leadership.""Too many leaders overlook candidates with unusual résumés because of a failure of nerve," Mr. Giuliani wrote. "By the time I appointed Bernie Kerik, I had hired so many people that I was immune to such criticisms."Tapped for PowerThe men who would become patron and protégé first met at a fund-raiser in 1990 in New Jersey honoring a slain New York City police officer.Mr. Kerik was a comic book hero come to life, a decorated undercover detective with a ponytail and earrings, thick biceps and a taste for four-letter words as nouns, verbs and adjectives. He cultivated relationships with powerful people, including an influential sheriff who five years earlier had made him the youngest jail warden in the history of Passaic County, N.J.When Mr. Giuliani ran for mayor in 1993, Mr. Kerik organized his security detail of off-duty officers, reserving the weekend shift for himself.When Mr. Giuliani became mayor, he gave Mr. Kerik a job in the Correction Department. A year later, the mayor asked him to drop by Gracie Mansion.The two men sat upstairs and shared a bottle of red wine, a gift to the mayor from Nelson Mandela. Mr. Giuliani said he planned to appoint Mr. Kerik as first deputy correction commissioner.Mr. Kerik, who wrote of this in his autobiography, "The Lost Son," was taken aback; he was a year removed from being a police detective."Mayor, I appreciate your confidence in me, I really do," he said. "But I ran a jail. One jail. Rikers is like 10 jails."Just do it, the mayor replied.Mr. Kerik followed Mr. Giuliani downstairs to a dimly lighted room. There waited Mr. Giuliani's boyhood chum Peter J. Powers, who was first deputy mayor, and other aides. One by one, they pulled Mr. Kerik close and kissed his cheek."I wonder if he noticed how much becoming part of his team resembled becoming part of a mafia family," Mr. Kerik wrote. "I was being made."Mr. Kerik was named correction commissioner in 1997. He brooked no slacking. He startled sleepy wardens by walking cellblocks at 2 a.m. Violence plummeted, and he basked in good press.Behind the scenes Mr. Kerik ruled like a feudal lord, many former employees have said. He had taken up with a woman who was a correction officer; he was accused of directing officers to staff his wedding. He befriended the agency's inspector general, whose watchdog responsibilities require keeping an arm's-length relationship, and the investigator attended his wedding.As the years passed, one of his top deputies was convicted of taking $142,000 from a Correction Department charity that Mr. Kerik headed. Another deputy, Anthony S. Serra, became a warden at Rikers Island even after he was accused of coercing officers to work on Republican campaigns. He was later convicted of forcing staff members to do campaign work and dispatching officers to renovate his upstate home.Building Suspect TiesMr. Kerik earned $150,500 as commissioner but pleaded poverty. He turned to Lawrence V. Ray, a friend of a few years, who had an engaging manner and a big bankroll.In 1998, Mr. Ray was the best man at Mr. Kerik's wedding — and paid for much of the event. Weeks later, Mr. Kerik recommended Mr. Ray for a $100,000 job with Interstate Industrial Corporation, a New Jersey-based construction firm with tens of millions of dollars in city contracts.Two years earlier, the owners, Peter and Frank DiTommaso, had paid more than $1 million to buy a transfer station from Edward Garafola, a mob soldier, and hoped to obtain a city operating license. But city investigators had found that the company employed mob figures and used mob-controlled trucking firms.The DiTommasos, who adamantly and repeatedly have denied any ties to organized crime, hoped Mr. Ray could help resolve their problem with the Giuliani administration. Soon after being hired, Mr. Ray took Frank DiTommaso to meet with his friend the correction commissioner.Mr. DiTommaso recalled the moment for city investigators: "Mr. Ray walked into the office, unannounced, just walked right in; Mr. Kerik got up and came around the desk and give him a big hug and a kiss."Within months, Interstate had hired Mr. Kerik's brother and the commissioner had begun lobbying behind the scenes for Interstate.One night in July 1999, he sat in Walker's, a bar in downtown Manhattan, defending Interstate to Raymond V. Casey, a cousin of Mayor Giuliani who was chief of enforcement for the city commission that was reviewing Interstate's license application. Later that year Mr. Kerik telephoned an assistant commissioner at the Department of Investigation to say that Interstate's owners, as far as he knew, were clean of mob taint, according to a person familiar with her account.And that September he had city detectives investigating the company meet Mr. Ray in his city office, a location that underlined for the men that the company had powerful friends.The lobbying stopped on March 2, 2000, when Mr. Ray and Mr. Garafola, the mob soldier, were indicted on federal charges in an unrelated stock scheme. Top Giuliani officials suspended Interstate's $85 million in city contracts.Three weeks later, Mr. Kerik sat down for a nearly two-hour interview with top officials at the Department of Investigation. He talked about his relationship with Mr. Ray and the DiTommasos, about the hiring of his brother and the meeting at Walker's.He neglected to mention a key fact: Interstate was paying for $165,000 worth of renovations on his new apartment in the Bronx.Vetting Giuliani's ChoiceThat July, Police Commissioner Howard Safir said he intended to resign. Mr. Giuliani narrowed the field of candidates to two: Chief of Department Joseph P. Dunne and Mr. Kerik, the correction commissioner, who had spent eight years as a police officer.Mr. Kuriansky, the investigation commissioner, oversaw the background checks. The agency is designed to be semi-independent, but Mr. Giuliani had torn down that wall, senior investigators said, appointing friends like Mr. Kuriansky as commissioner and having them attend his morning meetings.Mr. Kuriansky, a former special prosecutor, knew that Mr. Kerik had intervened on behalf of a firm suspected of mob ties and that the commissioner's brother and best friend worked for the company.But he did not know that Interstate had paid to renovate Mr. Kerik's apartment. And records indicate Mr. Kuriansky did not think the known record was enough to disqualify Mr. Kerik.On July 27 that year, according to Mr. Kuriansky's diaries and his later recollection, he briefed the mayor and Mr. Young, Mr. Giuliani's close aide, on Mr. Kerik's relationship with Mr. Ray and Interstate.Handwritten notes, taken by a city investigator during a December 2004 interview with Mr. Kuriansky, described his recollection: "Meet with RG & DY, discuss BK background review, Ray issue."Mr. Kuriansky's diaries say he conducted a similar briefing for Mr. Young on Aug. 14, 2000, five days before Mr. Kerik's appointment. Later, in his conversation with city investigators, Mr. Kuriansky summed up what he had related to Mr. Young: "Ray connection to BK, Ray was best man, brother worked at IS - all reported to DY."Mr. Young, through a spokeswoman, declined to be interviewed.Last year before the grand jury, Mr. Giuliani said that he recalled receiving a briefing on Mr. Kerik's background, but that neither he nor his aides remembered delving into Interstate or Mr. Ray. Even Mr. Kuriansky had trouble recalling the briefings, he said.Mr. Kuriansky died in July. He refused numerous interview requests before his death and never explained why he did not seem more troubled by Mr. Kerik's entanglements with Interstate, which seem to violate city conflict of interest rules.On Aug. 19, 2000, Mr. Giuliani decided the job was Mr. Kerik's, saying that he saw a fiercely loyal man with natural leadership ability. One Giuliani aide who attended some of the meetings on the choice said he never knew of Mr. Kuriansky's findings and does not believe the mayor would have overlooked such a problem."Had any of us known of Bernie's relationship to Interstate, it would have demolished him as a candidate," said the former official. "It's kind of mind-boggling."Trouble at the HelmMr. Kerik's 16-month tenure as police commissioner generally drew plaudits. Crime fell, relations with black leaders improved and Mr. Kerik's ties to Mr. Giuliani grew tighter, to the point where he named the mayor the godfather of his daughter.Behind the scenes, Mr. Kerik surrounded himself with police and correction buddies. When his book publisher and lover, Judith Regan, believed someone had stolen her cellphone and a piece of her jewelry, a Kerik aide dispatched elite homicide detectives to question suspects.In researching his book, Mr. Kerik sent officers to investigate his mother's death, an abuse for which the city's Conflict of Interest Board later fined him $2,500.None of the ethics problems seriously damaged Mr. Kerik, though, and when terrorists attacked the World Trade Center, Mr. Kerik won public acclaim, largely because he displayed steady resolve at Mr. Giuliani's side.Three years later, after his federal nomination was withdrawn, it was discovered that he had used an apartment originally set aside for weary rescue workers at ground zero as a nest for an extramarital affair with Ms. Regan.After Mr. Giuliani left office in 2002, Mr. Kerik joined him at his new consulting firm, Giuliani Partners. In 2003, President Bush sent Mr. Kerik to Iraq to reorganize the Iraqi police force. In Baghdad, he signed autographs, surrounded himself with South African bodyguards, slept during the day and joined Iraqi paramilitary units on corruption raids late into the night. He decided to leave suddenly after three months.He campaigned hard for President Bush's re-election the next year, bonding with the president on the campaign trail and speaking at the Republican National Convention in New York.After the election, Mr. Bush sought a director of homeland security. Mr. Giuliani was among the people who promoted Mr. Kerik for the job, and even helped him prepare for the interviews.By this time, Mr. Kerik's former warden, Mr. Serra, had been indicted. Another top aide, Frederick J. Patrick, had been sentenced to prison and had been told to reimburse $142,000 taken from the foundation he ran with Mr. Kerik. And newspapers had written of Mr. Kerik's efforts to protect a correction aide accused of beating his lover.But if Mr. Giuliani or Mr. Bush took notice, the issues did not give them pause."He was a champion of him," Andrew Card, chief of staff to Mr. Bush at the time, recently recalled of Mr. Giuliani. "It wasn't an arm-twisting session. It was more of a character reference."Mr. Kerik's tenure as a nominee lasted one week. He withdrew when he and Mr. Giuliani said they discovered that his nanny was in the country illegally and that he had failed to pay taxes for her.Worse news was coming. Newspapers reported that Mr. Kerik had accepted undisclosed cash gifts from Mr. Ray and lobbied for Interstate. At the time, Mr. Giuliani said he was not inclined to second-guess his choice of Mr. Kerik as police commissioner."Sometimes you look back on some of these choices and you made the wrong one," he said. "In this case, he turned out to be the right one."Less than two years later, though, Mr. Giuliani would find himself being grilled about that choice. On April 20, 2006, before a state grand jury, a prosecutor in the Bronx district attorney's office peppered Mr. Giuliani, one of the most powerful prosecutors in the late 20th century, about his apparent lack of memory.Would you have considered it unusual and significant, the prosecutor asked, if as mayor in 2000 you had been told that a close friend of your correction commissioner had been indicted in a federal case with organized crime figures?"It's really a hypothetical question," Mr. Giuliani replied. "I mean, sure, it would have been unusual, sure."There was nothing hypothetical about the question. The prosecutor was merely laying out the facts established by the Department of Investigation in the months before Mr. Giuliani appointed Mr. Kerik police commissioner.Yesterday, Mr. Kerik's lawyer met with federal prosecutors in New York in an effort to stave off indictment. In a recent interview, Mr. Kerik said that he had been steering clear of Mr. Giuliani, lest his troubles hurt his friend, although they did cross paths at the Sept. 11 ceremony at ground zero this fall."We have not communicated in months, at all, at all," he said. "When the last time is, I could not even tell you."Nicole Lee Davison was married yesterday to Michael Campbell Fox at Halcyon House, a historic house in Washington. Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle of Federal District Court for the District of Columbia, officiated.The bride and the bridegroom met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they graduated.Mrs. Fox, 28, is an associate at Morgan Stanley, the New York investment bank; she works on the strategy and economics team in the research division. She has an M.B.A. and a master's degree in public administration from Harvard.She is the daughter of Barbara B. Davison and Dennis A. Davison of Bethesda, Md. Her father is a partner in McKenna Long & Aldridge, a Washington law firm. Her mother is a third-grade teacher at Sidwell Friends School, also in Washington.Mr. Fox, 27, is a senior analyst for investments in public companies at Intrepid Capital Management, a New York hedge fund.He is  a son of Mary S. Fox and Michael B. Fox of Concord, Mass. His father is an executive vice president for corporate business development at Fidelity Investments in Boston.THE ABSTINENCE TEACHER, by Tom Perrotta.(St. Martin's, $24.95.) In this novel by the author of"Little Children," a sex-ed teacher faces off against achurch bent on ridding her town of "moral decay."ONE DROP: My Father's Hidden Life — a Story ofRace and Family Secrets, by Bliss Broyard. (Little,Brown, $24.99.) With the revelation shortly before hisdeath that Anatole Broyard, once a book critic for TheNew York Times, was part black, his daughter set outto exhume the family history he had denied.CHEATING AT CANASTA, by William Trevor.(Viking, $24.95.) Trevor's dark, worldly short storieslinger in the mind long after they're finished.SUPERCAPITALISM: The Transformation ofBusiness, Democracy, and Everyday Life, by Robert B.Reich. (Knopf, $25.) Reich, a former labor secretary,says America's ills — poor health care, income gaps— can be fixed only if market forces are restrained.THE SLAVE SHIP: A Human History, by MarcusRediker. (Viking, $27.95.) A masterly account of thebusiness, politics and cruelty aboard the vessels thattraversed the Middle Passage in the 18th century.THE CONSCIENCE OF A LIBERAL, by PaulKrugman. (Norton, $25.95.) The economist and NewYork Times columnist says Republican radicals areresponsible for growing inequality.FORESKIN'S LAMENT: A Memoir, by Shalom Auslander.(Riverhead, $24.95.) With scathing humor andbitter irony, Auslander, a contributor to "This AmericanLife," wrestles with his Jewish Orthodox roots.WEIMAR GERMANY: Promise and Tragedy, by EricD. Weitz. (Princeton University, $29.95.) Weitz's historyshows a nation striving to master the flux of modernity.HIGH SEASON, by Jon Loomis. (St. Martin's Minotaur,$23.95.) A married televangelist turns up dead ata gay men's beach in a muumuu. A whodunit ensues.
