In another sign that troubles within the mortgage industry will continue into 2008, one of the largest originators of residential home loans announced Tuesday that it is scrapping a planned $1.8 billion sale, because banks had failed to agree to finance the transaction.PHH, a New Jersey-based mortgage and vehicle leasing company, announced in March that it was selling itself for $1.8 billion to General Electric and the Blackstone Group, a large private investment company. But as the mortgage industry continued to deteriorate, the banks financing the transaction — JPMorgan and Lehman Brothers — slashed the deal's loans by as much as $750 million in September.PHH said Tuesday it was terminating the sale because Blackstone, which was to acquire the mortgage business, had failed to find alternative financing.The termination comes as an embarrassment for Blackstone, which has built a reputation for closing deals even in the face of obstacles, and a disappointment for General Electric, which was hoping to acquire PHH's vehicle leasing business."We remain committed to the fleet services space, and this would have been a perfect fit," said Stephen White, a spokesman for G. E. "We wanted to do the transaction."A source close to Blackstone, who requested anonymity because the person was not authorized to be quoted, said the company had pushed lenders to honor their financing agreements, but had been  unable to convince them that PHH's mortgage business was worth as much as was estimated in March, when the mortgage markets were steadier. Blackstone was unwilling to pay the difference itself.It is unclear what the collapse of the deal bodes for PHH. In July, the company's stock traded close to the $31.50 a share that the acquisition had promised. But on Monday, it closed at $17.64. Markets were closed Tuesday, when the termination was disclosed.In a statement announcing the deal's cancellation, PHH's nonexecutive chairman, A. B. Krongard, expressed disappointment and said that there "can be no assurance that any further exploration of strategic alternatives that the board may determine to undertake will result in any agreement or transactions."PHH executives did not respond to calls seeking further comment.Under the terms of the deal, Blackstone is liable for a $50 million termination fee, payable to PHH. General Electric is not required to pay a termination fee.Last month, H&R Block, the tax preparation company, announced it was closing its mortgage lending arm after the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management walked away from a deal to buy it for $300 million.Bigger is better, right?Not so fast. Corporate America appears to have had second thoughts in 2007.Frank S. Blake, who replaced Robert L. Nardelli as chief executive of Home Depot, sold off the $12 billion division that Mr. Nardelli  set up to serve professional builders."Bob's strategy was, 'Enhance, extend, expand,' go after adjacent markets and adjacent customers," Mr. Blake said. "My vision is that all key investments, be they human resources or money or time, should be focused on the core retail business."When Fred Poses became chief of American Standard Companies in 2000, he inherited a company that had steadily branched out from bath and kitchen fixtures into such disparate areas as air-conditioning and braking systems for vehicles. Last year, he sold the legacy business, spun off the Wabco braking unit, and changed the company's name to Trane, its signature air-conditioning brand. And just last month, he sold Trane to Ingersoll-Rand, which had itself pared down in recent months.American Standard "had three good businesses that didn't have commonality of customers, of the way they went to market, of materials or manufacturing processes or technology," Mr. Poses said. "We realized there just wasn't a lot of value in keeping them together."Corporate executives and their Wall Street counterparts are subject to fads, and they have gone through previous periods in which first broadening and then narrowing business portfolios have taken center stage. At the moment, scaling back appears to be enjoying the upper hand.Edward D. Breen, who replaced L. Dennis Kozlowski as Tyco International's chief in 2002, spun off Tyco's electronics and health care businesses last year, leaving Tyco with its product roster of safety equipment, valves and controls.DaimlerChrysler is again Daimler and Chrysler. Many investors speculate that Time Warner may hive off parts of itself.Barry Diller has said that he will break up  IAC/InterActiveCorp, his grab bag of Internet companies and services, into five businesses. And many Citigroup investors are clamoring for the company to undo the financial supermarket model that had guided its growth strategy for years."There's a huge pressure on chief executives for performance these days," said Joseph L. Bower, who specializes in management  at the Harvard Business School. "So when the corporate office starts looking at its portfolio, it often discovers there are pieces that don't fit."This is not the first time that company executives have devoted their energies to getting big, only to find that size does not necessarily equal profit.Throughout the 1960s, companies like ITT and Textron bought up businesses as disparate as hotels, food and machine tools. The prevailing ideas were that a good manager can manage anything, economies of scale would always yield lower costs, and a hodgepodge of businesses was the best hedge against economic cycles. Shareholders believed all that, too, and conglomerate shares soared.Then management consultants and business schools began promulgating the idea of "core competencies" — the notion that companies should focus only on businesses that best fit their skills and distribution channels.Shareholders hopped on board and began selling conglomerate stocks, prompting many  such companies (General Electric is a notable exception) to shed businesses that were not an obvious fit.Over the last few years, many companies, scrambling for new ways to increase the scale of their core businesses, broadened their definition of core competency.Citigroup was in the money business — so why not sell products to consumers,  businesses and investors alike? Home Depot  was already selling to small contractors via its stores, so why not serve mega-builders directly?Mr. Kozlowski, who had  built Tyco into a "three-legged stool" that rested on fire detectors, medical products and electronic components, added a fourth leg, a financial company, with the idea that offering financing would help the other legs grow.Now shareholders have grown disaffected with many of these new  conglomerates, too. They again recognize that they can diversify their own portfolios by buying shares of single-focus companies — or, they can simply invest in mutual funds that are by definition diversified."There is a growing sense among investors that portfolio managers do a better job than corporate managers," said Kathryn Rudie Harrigan, a professor of business leadership at the Columbia Business School. "So they are asking point-blank, 'Why are you keeping these businesses together?'"Corporate chiefs are having a harder time answering that question. Many of the perceived synergies between disparate businesses never really panned out, no matter how good they looked on paper.That is the reasoning behind the growing clamor among Citigroup investors for the financial behemoth to break itself into a consumer bank, an investment bank and a brokerage firm."Banks that want to be one-stop shops for financial transactions must realize that it takes more than a pat on the back to get stockbrokers to cross-sell loans," said Robert H. Gertner, a professor of economics and strategy at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.Disgruntled investors are more vehement. "The whole idea of a financial supermarket is ridiculous," said William B. Smith, president of SAM Advisors, a money management firm that owns Citigroup shares. "You can't cross-sell, because the investment bankers won't let brokers court their clients, and individuals don't want their personal bankers ramming a mutual fund down their throat."Citigroup officials do not necessarily disagree. "Cross-selling is always difficult," said Gary L. Crittenden, Citigroup's chief financial officer in an interview, who stressed that he does not know if Vikram S. Pandit, Citi's new chief executive, will dissect the company.But Mr. Crittenden does tick off reasons he thinks the Citigroup structure works. He notes that it provides a flow of capital from mature businesses like domestic credit cards into growing businesses, like the bank Citigroup just bought in Taiwan. And he notes that diversified revenue and income streams lead to a much stronger credit rating."There are many compelling reasons why the pieces of this company fit well," he said.Such rationales  were heard in the last wave of corporate breakups too, of course. The element that has been added this time is the rising influence of private equity firms. While many are somewhat cash-squeezed now, in recent years they have formed a steady stream of buyers for the assets the slimming down companies divest.An alliance of private equity firms paid $8.5 billion for Home Depot Supply, as the company's professional unit was called. It was less than Home Depot had originally expected, but more than it  probably could have gotten from a strategic buyer, considering faltering home-building markets and tight credit.Bain Capital Partners paid $1.76 billion for American Standard's bath and kitchen business. "Private equity has created an exit strategy for parts of portfolios that are not attractive to strategic buyers," said Mr. Poses, the Trane chief.Moreover, the specter of a deep-pocketed equity firm waiting to pounce can tip management into sloughing off divisions they might otherwise have held."If the stock price is lagging, companies may decide to break themselves up before an equity firm comes and does it for them," said Professor Bower of Harvard. "They'd rather the money went to their shareholders than to the partners in the buyout firm."Private equity firms, of course, no longer simply buy up companies, cut costs, and flip them back to the public markets. Many private firms now buy along a theme: They snap up assets, roll them up into huge companies — think Wilbur L. Ross and his steel, coal  and textiles companies   — that they manage for years before they take them public."There's been a real migration from the old private equity firm that was managed by the numbers," Professor Harrigan said. "Today's private equity companies are the new conglomerates."If true, they may face some challenges of their own. Management experts, and a growing number of chief executives themselves, are conceding that even the smartest people become distracted if they are pulled in too many directions at once.The main reason Mr. Blake decided to sell Home Depot Supply was that he wanted to  tinker with product mixes, expand to new markets, and experiment with new store formats. In other words, he wanted to concentrate on the stores."It was a question of focus," he said. "Supply would have diverted too much attention and resources that had to go to retail."Janice K. Mahon and Jeffrey D. DuFour were married on Thursday morning at the South Brunswick Municipal Center in South Brunswick, N.J. Mayor Frank  Gambatese of South Brunswick officiated. Next Saturday,  Judge William D. Cohen of the Vermont Superior Court  will lead a marriage celebration at  Tre Piani, a restaurant in Princeton, N.J.Mrs. DuFour, 50,  is the vice president for technology commercialization and a member of the executive committee of the Universal Display Corporation, a company in Ewing, N.J., that develops the technology used in  computer monitors, cellphones and television sets. She is the general manager of the concern's chemical business and responsible for corporate marketing and public relations. She graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and received an M.B.A. from Harvard.She is a daughter of Allayne M. Whitcomb of Ormond Beach, Fla., and the late John B. Kremp Jr.Mr. DuFour, 53, works in Princeton as a managing partner in the Hermes Group, an accounting and financial services consulting firm. He is also the chief executive of the Tillit Group, a firm in Princeton that advises people in fiduciary positions  and also represents litigants in fiduciary matters. He graduated from Bryant University in Smithfield, R.I.He is a son of Richard D. DuFour of Frisco, Tex., and the late Dolores A. Dohanish.The bride's previous marriage ended in divorce, as did the three previous marriages of the bridegroom.CHICAGO — A strict ban on smoking went into effect in Illinois on Tuesday, sending clusters of bundled smokers here out into frigid temperatures and the thick pile of snow that also arrived with the new year.The restrictions, which ban smoking inside bars, restaurants, bowling alleys, pool halls, casinos and in nearly every other public place and workplace, called on business owners to remove all ashtrays, post "no smoking" signs and enforce the new rules."People weren't happy about it," Tito Chacon, a waiter at the Billy Goat Tavern, a Chicago institution, said on Tuesday. "But this is the law now."While there were complaints, the law went into effect with relatively little fanfare. In recent years, more than 20 other states have adopted similar  restrictions on smoking, experts said. Scores of cities and counties have passed their own limits, as have officials in other countries, including France, where a ban also went into effect on Jan. 1.Somewhere along the way, antismoking advocates said, such laws have begun to draw less debate."The country has really become quite aware of the dangers of smoking over the past five years," said Kevin B. Tynan, an official with the Respiratory Health Association of Metropolitan Chicago. "We've had a thorough discussion. And even smokers recognize the real dangers."Here, health advocacy groups are providing quit-smoking help, including  squeeze balls to relieve stress. The Respiratory Health Association offered 25-cent bounties for unwanted ashtrays; 350 had been collected by Tuesday.Advocates of strict bans said they had been shown to help reduce smoking and had not, generally, resulted in slowdowns for businesses, as some had feared.But the operators of Illinois's nine casinos are unconvinced. They predict a 20 percent decrease in business will follow the law, said Tom Swoik, the executive director of the Illinois Casino Gaming Association. There is a high correlation, he said, between people who go to casinos and people who smoke;  some Illinois operators say as much as 70 percent of their customers smoke.Several casinos here, too, are not far from  states where smoking bans have not been imposed. Unhappy smokers could cross state lines, the operators say."We're hoping that after the legislature sees the impact of this, they'll reconsider an exception," Mr. Swoik said. For now, he said, many casinos have built outside shelters — akin to partly enclosed bus stops — where smokers can take breaks.The Illinois ban, passed by the legislature, creates some consistency in what had become a patchwork of  regulations  adopted by municipalities around the state, including Chicago."We can all collectively take a breath of fresh air as this long-awaited law finally takes hold," Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich said in a statement released Tuesday. More than 16,000 people in Illinois die each year from smoking-related illnesses, he said.For violations, smokers can be fined up to $250, the governor's office said. Businesses may be fined $250, more for multiple violations.Chicago officials said the departments of public health and business affairs and licensing would enforce the ban during regular inspections. Residents may also report complaints.Smoking is still allowed in homes, some hotel rooms and  retail tobacco stores.That exemption has led the owners of Mario's Taco House in the Humboldt Park neighborhood to transform itself into a tobacco shop. They had long sold cigars here but are adding specialty cigarettes and tobacco — and dropping the tacos, said Mario Martinez, whose family owns the renamed store, Caganchos."We realized people still want somewhere to go for this," he said.Glenn W. Ferguson, a former ambassador to Kenya, the president or chancellor of three universities and, for a brief time in the 1980s, the president of Lincoln Center, died at his home in Santa Fe, N.M., on Dec. 20. Mr. Ferguson, who held other influential positions during his career, including head of Radio Free Europe, was 78.The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Patricia.In May 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson named Mr. Ferguson ambassador to Kenya, a post he held for three years.Mr. Ferguson returned to the United States in 1969 and, for a year, was the chancellor of Long Island University. From 1970 to 1973, he was president of Clark University in Worcester, Mass., and from 1973 to 1978 he was president of the University of Connecticut.He then began a five-year term as chief executive of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, the government-financed network created during the cold war that broadcast news in 21 languages to an estimated 18 million listeners a day.In 1983, Mr. Ferguson, who had not applied for the job, was named president of Lincoln Center. He had been recommended by several members of the board. But the primarily administrative nature of the job did not suit him, and nine months later he announced his resignation.Glenn Walker Ferguson was born in Syracuse on Jan. 28, 1929, the only child of Forrest and Mabel Walker Ferguson.Mr. Ferguson graduated from Cornell with a degree in economics in 1950. A year later, he earned a master's degree in business administration, also from Cornell. He was a lieutenant in the Air Force during the Korean War, assigned to a psychological warfare unit. In 1957, he received a law degree from the University of Pittsburgh, but never practiced law.After several years as a management consultant and then as an assistant professor of international affairs at the University of Pittsburgh, Mr. Ferguson was named director of the Peace Corps in Thailand. From 1964 to 1966, he was the first director of Vista,  the domestic version of the Peace Corps.Besides his wife of 57 years, the former Patricia Head, Mr. Ferguson is survived by two sons, Bruce, of Great Falls, Va., and Scott, of Berkeley, Calif.; a daughter, Sherry Ferguson Zoellick, of McLean, Va.; and four grandchildren.
