CALL it the curse of the business press.Chief executives who are heralded as "best manager" or "best performing" or who receive some other kind of elaborate praise from business writers almost always see their company's stock performance suffer afterwards, according to a working paper by two assistant professors of economics at the University of California, Ulrike Malmendier of Berkeley and Geoffrey Alan Tate of U.C.L.A."The stock market returns of award-winning C.E.O.s' companies lagged those of their unheralded peers by about 4 percent per year over the three years following an award," Larry Yu writes in Sloan Management Review in summarizing the research.What causes the decline? The academics speculate that recognition in the press could lead to the executive's becoming distracted. "Winning an award doubles the odds of the C.E.O. penning a book, and winning as many as five awards makes a C.E.O. four times as likely to sit on five or more outside boards."Or it could be that as Ms. Malmendier notes,  journalists are simply very good at picking people who are going to underperform.Perhaps not surprisingly the "C.E.O.s themselves did just fine.""Award winners tended to receive higher compensation, mostly equity based, than other C.E.O.s."AFTER E-MAIL Odds are your e-mail account at work is overflowing.Fast Company presents some case studies of how companies are dealing with the problem.Capital One, where employees average 40 to 50 e-mail messages  a day, is trying to make the existing system better by teaching employees to write better messages."It turns out that stronger subject lines help recipients better understand why they received an e-mail" and it also makes it easier to find the message later, if they decide to store it.How might it work? Instead of writing "here's what you asked for," as the subject line, it would be more effective to say "here's the 2008 staffing model."Using bullet points and underlining or "bolding" major points also makes the text more effective.Union Bank of California is spending more time figuring out who, exactly, needs to see each specific e-mail message.For example, "if power goes out at the Fresno branch, for instance, only those staffers in nearby branches — and specific managers — will get the memo."FACE TIME: GOOD At first glance, it looks as if wires must be crossed somewhere: Although 75 percent of managers say that telecommuters are just as productive as their in-office colleagues, only 39 percent say that virtual workers are likely to advance as fast as those employees who go into the office every day.A psychologist, Judith Olson, believes she can explain the seeming disparity, Psychology Today reports.She believes that employers have better relationships with employees  they see in person."Your boss wants to be able to glance into your office and see that you're on task, and is more likely to invite you to an educational seminar or an after-work advice session if she can bump into you in the hall," the magazine writes.FINAL TAKE You can gain any number of business lessons from fairy tales, Melissa Balmain writes in Babytalk. For example:¶Beware of shaky real estate investments (The Three Little Pigs).¶Never miss a window of opportunity (Rapunzel).¶ Don't trust an offer — no matter how enticing — if you are unfamiliar with who is making it (Hansel and Gretel).PAUL B. BROWN The folks who can't stand Microsoft are legion. If you go to Google and type in "I hate Microsoft" you will get more than 20 million links. Having a near monopoly in personal computer operating software will engender that kind of response.But even the people who hate the company should visit  its small-business Web site.Microsoft has compiled an extensive resource center, with topics like customer service (seven ways to defuse angry customers; how to turn customers into your sales force) and human resources (communication tips). Not surprisingly it has a strong technology section.Plugs for Microsoft products are segregated from the articles for the most part — and are easy to skip.SUN SPOTS Most of the time, the blog done by Jonathan Schwartz, Sun Microsystems' chief executive and president, is focused on company-specific things: what new products are being introduced or how he thinks the company is doing.But it is worth checking out the blog periodically because every once in a while Mr. Schwartz shares an insight that could help you do business better. Such was the case on Aug.  9.Here's the beginning of the post that can be found at blogs.sun.com/jonathan/:"A while back, we did some simple math on launch events at Sun — we spent a ton of money, got 500-1,000 invited guests into the audience, and missed most of the planet. By definition, our marketplace can't fit into a single room. So we began streaming our launch events via the Web."Lo and behold, when we counted our Web audience, the numbers were staggering — we were reaching 100,000's of people. So we took the money we were otherwise spending on launch events in luxury hotels, and moved it to improve the global Web experience — the chandeliers weren't quite as fancy, but we wanted the audience focused on content, not crystal."GOVERNMENT AID (I) Yes, of course, if you want a quick laugh all you have to say is, "I am from the government and I am here to help you."And no, we haven't met too many entrepreneurial government officials.Still, the Small Business Administration Web's site (www.sba.gov/) is worth a look, especially if you are just starting out or need a refresher course on the fundamentals.The information for the most part is basic, but thorough. (For example, in the section on writing a business plan, you'll read: "Getting out of your business may not be important to you at this point. However, planning your exit strategy often involves more than just closing down.")And if you need inspiration, there is an entire section on success stories.GOVERNMENT AID (II) Who knew you might want to willingly interact with the Internal Revenue Service?Not only does the I.R.S. offer a self-directed workshop "designed to help new and existing small-business owners understand and meet tax obligations" (www.irs.gov/businesses/small/article/0,,id=97726,00.html), but its Web site has countless links to other federal and state agencies that could prove helpful when it comes to doing market research.COMMON WOES Many of the problems a small-business owner faces are unique to entrepreneurs, but this one isn't: Just like big companies, odds are you are going to have problems finding good, qualified employees in coming years.Inc. explains why in its current issue (www.inc.com/magazine/20070801/boomer-benefits.html): "Over the next two decades, 78 million baby boomers will turn 65, the traditional retirement age," and there are simply not enough younger workers to fill their spots.One way to reduce the severity of the problem is to try to get your older workers to stay on the job a bit longer.Clearly, wages and health benefits are important lures, but so are training, flexible work schedules, retirement planning and elder care assistance, the magazine says.LAST CALL Identify this market niche (the numbers come courtesy of O, The Oprah magazine) based on just these three clues:¶Total size: $38.5 billion in the United States, up from $21 billion a decade ago.¶Projected market size by 2010: $50 billion.¶Types of products available: spas, day care, dentures, organic food, massage and acupuncture.Answer: Pet care.In Russia, Denis V. Kvasov is a just a hard-working, tax-paying entrepreneur. To the Western music industry, Mr. Kvasov is responsible for spreading Internet music piracy on a global scale.Mr. Kvasov is the founder and former director of allofmp3.com, the Russian digital music download site that became a hit before it was shut down in July as a condition of Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization. The United States State Department called it among the worst Web piracy sites in the world.The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, a music industry lobbying group, had hoped that Mr. Kvasov would get prison time in a Russian criminal case. That, the group said, would send a message to Web pirates in Eastern Europe and China.But Mr. Kvasov was cleared of criminal wrongdoing by  Cheryomuskinsky  District Court in Moscow last Wednesday. He had faced up to five years in prison after being accused of copyright infringement."We are disappointed," said Igor B. Pozhitkov, the director of the federation for former Soviet states. "The operation of this notorious Web site was a crime."Mr. Kvasov, 29, now a free man with a clean record in Russia, ran allofmp3.com out of  his Moscow apartment, according to his defense lawyers. It earned roughly $18 million a year and claimed to be the world's second-largest music download storefront, after iTunes. The company sold albums for $1, citing a provision in Russian copyright law  —  while competitors like iTunes sell just one song for that price. ANDREW E. KRAMER  'SMACKDOWN' IN CHINA The United States has exported Disneyland, Nike and even McDonald's to China. But professional wrestling?Yes, programs from World Wrestling Entertainment like "SmackDown" and "Raw" are headed to the Chinese. Linda E. McMahon, the company's chief executive, said that she recently returned from two weeks of travel  from Hong Kong to Beijing and several points in between, meeting with broadcasters, advertisers and government officials.She also officially opened a W.W.E. office in Shanghai.  "We are looking at China as an incredible marketplace for us," she said.Mrs. McMahon said that viewers overseas see the same celebrity wrestlers as they do on American television and follow the same storylines,  in condensed versions.But are China's 1.3 billion people ready for "W.W.E. Raw," even in abbreviated form?"We are already on two provincial stations and have been on the air since January," she  said. "And they have recently increased the number of hours of programming that they want. That is a good sign, but it's slow-growing." JUSTON JONES AND IN THIS CORNER... A condo developer is pitting Wall Street executives against one another in a charity boxing event meant to create some buzz about its properties."Lots of our buyers are from Wall Street," said Raizy Haas, senior vice president for development at the Extell Development Corporation. "It just hit me one day that we should do this. Traders and bankers need to be focused and aggressive. These are all the traits you need to be a good boxer."The event, set for Nov. 1, was announced last week at the New York Mercantile Exchange, where Wall Street pugilists gathered to ring the closing bell alongside  Marc V. Shaw, a former New York deputy mayor and now an Extell executive vice president.More than 100 men — no women — answered an e-mail blast inviting them to participate, Ms. Haas said. Of those, 24 were tapped to train at the Trinity Boxing Club, one of Wall Street's oldest gyms. Leading up to the match, there will be weigh-ins and fund-raisers at Extell buildings and offices.The boxing pundit Bert Sugar is host for the main event, which is being staged by Trader Monthly and Dealmaker magazines, where Extell is an advertiser.Prize money will go to charities, including Tuesday's Children, which helps people who lost loved ones in the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and Say Yes to Education, which helps pay for college tuition.Six months after fight night, if a boxer shows that he brought in a condo buyer, Extell will double its charity contribution,  Ms. Haas said.   LOUISE KRAMERA MONTH LATER, A BONUS RICHER  Less than two years ago, Nortel Networks gave its president for North America, Dion C. Joannou, 750,000 reasons to stay in his job for a while.For remaining with the company until July 31, 2006, he collected a bonus of $375,000, which increased his total pay for last year to more than $2.1 million. He stood to collect another bonus of the same amount if he stayed with Nortel through Tuesday, July 31.This month, Nortel announced that Mr. Joannou, 41, had resigned to pursue other personal interests, effective Aug. 31. PATRICK McGEEHAN The College Board, the powerful testing organization known for its SAT and Advanced Placement exams, announced yesterday that it was getting out of the student loan business.The College Board, a nonprofit organization based in New York City that has been expanding into new products like English and math curriculums, began offering student loans in the early 1990s, partnering with companies that included Sallie Mae and Citibank. The lenders extended the money, while the College Board received a fee from them for serving essentially as a gateway for borrowers.In explaining its decision to abandon the business, the College Board cited new legislation and regulations cracking down on relationships between lenders and colleges that have been enacted in the wake of revelations that numerous lenders were paying colleges commissions or bonuses in exchange for business. College officials have also received free trips, meals and other perks to win spots on the so-called preferred lender lists that students rely on when selecting a loan company.Edna Johnson, a College Board spokeswoman, said the new rules — designed to prevent conflicts of interest that could lead universities to steer students to particular lenders — would prevent the organization from conducting events it routinely holds with university officials to discuss topics like student writing skills, admissions trends and  financial aid."We understand and respect the intent of this new legislation and these new codes, but the end result is that we're not able to reimburse our members for travel and lodging," Ms. Johnson said. "If we no longer reimburse the educators, then only those educators from schools, colleges and universities with the financial resources to pay for the travel and the accommodations would attend."The association also emphasized that its student lending operation had accounted for less than 1 percent of the $618 million in revenue in the year ending June 30, and that shutting it down would affect only 15 employees.Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, who has led the way in looking into the practices of the $85 billion student loan industry, requested information from the College Board in February as part of an investigation that continues. Jeffrey B. Lerner, director of communications for the attorney general's office, praised the College Board for its decision, calling it "a positive development."Ms. Johnson said that the College Board's decision was not part of an agreement with Mr. Cuomo's office but an independent move, adding that the organization was cooperating with his investigation.Mr. Cuomo began looking at the College Board, along with several other loan companies, when his office began investigating various lenders' practices, including reimbursing college and university officials for travel to meetings at which they were hosts and for other expenses.Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director at the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, said the rules would probably not lead most other lenders to abandon student loans. The College Board was in an unusual position because it was a loan marketer, not a lender, Mr. Nassirian said."They have no infrastructure," he said. "They have nothing but a marketing facade and as they themselves would point out, not a particularly big one anyway."Susan Lee Green, a daughter of Barbara B. Green of Nanuet, N.Y., and Dr. John H. Green of Huntington, N.Y., was married on Thursday to Adam Seth Greene, the son of Andrea Greene and Robert M. Greene of Manhattan. Rabbi David E. Greenberg officiated at the Metropolitan Club in Manhattan.The bride is to begin her third year at Brooklyn Law School later this week. The bridegroom received his law degree from that college, where he met his wife.Mrs. Greene, 26, was until last week a summer associate at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, the Manhattan law firm. She graduated from Lehigh University with a bachelor's degree in Spanish and a bachelor's degree in economics and finance.Her father, a retired general practitioner, was a staff physician for the New York City Department of Health, seeing patients in a free clinic in Corona, Queens; he was also a staff physician at a Westchester County Department of Health clinic in White Plains. Her mother is a director of nursing at Northern Manor Multicare Center, a nursing home in Nanuet.Mr. Greene, 30, is an associate specializing in corporate law at Davis Polk & Wardwell, the Manhattan law firm. He graduated from Tulane.His parents are owners of Murray Feiss Import, a lighting and furniture manufacturer in the Bronx; his mother is a vice president for advertising and marketing and his father is the president for business operations.Vedica  Jain  and Adeel  A. Qalbani  were married yesterday at the Fairmont San Francisco hotel. Pandit Dhirendra B. Sharma, a Hindu priest, officiated at a Hindu ceremony, which  was preceded by a Muslim ceremony performed by Nourredine Ale-Ali.Mrs. Qalbani, 29, is a  manager for mergers and acquisitions for Time Warner in New York. She graduated cum laude from Harvard, where she also received an M.B.A.She is a  daughter of Shabnam and Lall Jain of Los Altos Hills, Calif. Her parents are both retired from Hewlett Packard in Palo Alto, Calif., where her father was a manager for research and development and her mother a manager for financial operations. Her father is now a residential real estate developer in Los Altos who owns a construction firm that bears his name. Her mother now owns Azool, a jewelry business there.Mr. Qalbani, 30, is a managing director for the Reservoir Capital Group, an investment firm in New York. He graduated summa cum laude from Princeton and received a master's degree in economics from Oxford, where he was a Rhodes Scholar.He is a  son of Dr. Fahima Qalbani and Dr. Askar A. Qalbani of Dakota Dunes, S.D. His mother, a radiologist, owns the Breast Care Center in Dakota Dunes. His father, a pathologist, is the  chairman of the department of pathology and medical director of laboratories at Mercy Medical Center-Sioux City in Iowa.HOUSTON, Aug. 20 — Where is everybody?Seared by triple-digit heat and drenched by tropical storms, midday downtown Houston appears eerily deserted, the nation's fourth-largest city passing for a ghost town.On the street, that is.But below, there are tunnels at the end of the light — nearly seven color-coded miles of them connecting 77 buildings — aswarm with Houstonians lunching, shopping and power-walking in dry, air-chilled comfort."We're taking the yellow route," said Lyndon Wang, a Y.M.C.A. counselor who one day last week brought in his 21 day-campers from the Galveston Bay area near the Johnson Space Center after a heat advisory abruptly forced cancellation of an outing in a Houston park. "We had to pull this together in 15 minutes," Mr. Wang said.Other cities, notably Montreal, Toronto and Minneapolis, are renowned for their extensive tunnel and skyway networks. But Houston may be alone in the extent and nature of its pedestrian circulation system of tunnels and skywalks that become particularly popular on days like Aug. 12, 13 and 14 when temperatures hit 102 and 101, or last Thursday, when Tropical Storm Erin flooded many streets.It was not centrally planned; it just grew, inspired by Rockefeller Center in New York. But it is not connected to a transit network. And, befitting Texans' distrust of government, most of it is private; each segment is controlled by the individual building owner who deigns to allow the public access during business hours — and then locks the doors on nights and weekends. Some parts, like those belonging to the former Enron buildings now leased by Chevron, are closed to outsiders altogether.Few claim mastery of the labyrinth."It's one of Houston's best-kept secrets," said Sandra Lord, widely known as the Tunnel Lady, a Yankee transplant who dispels the mysteries for $10 a head and roams the downtown underworld with proprietary aplomb, sometimes stopping strangers to ask,  "And you are?" Corporations pay Ms. Lord to orient new employees below ground, and nearly 45,000 natives and visitors have taken her Discover Houston Tours since 1988.Among them recently was Andrea Link of nearby Bellaire with her daughter, Kyra, 9; son Jack, 4;  and  mother, Csilla Horvath. Ms. Link confessed she had never braved the tunnels before. "I didn't know where to enter," she said.The tunnels can indeed be intimidating. "It's not intuitively a user-friendly system," acknowledged Guy Hagstette, an urban planner who designed some of the signage and now directs the building of a big new city park, Discovery Green, near the George R. Brown Convention Center. Intricate maps display the eight connected tunnel and skywalk systems, but without landmarks or directional clues, the routes can be difficult to follow."Nothing says north, south, east or west. You have to memorize the buildings," said David Gerst, a lawyer who opened a lucrative sandwich shop — BeWitched — off the East McKinney (green) tunnel network under Commerce Towers, the former Chamber of Commerce building converted to condominiums. For access to the 3,000 people who stream by his shop each lunchtime in what tunnel merchants call the holy hours, Mr. Gerst pays $2,500 a month rent for 800 square feet, more than what surface lunch space may command.Even the Tunnel Lady can become lost. "I — think I know where I am," said Ms. Lord, 66. She momentarily mistook the upper and lower levels of an unusual double-decker tunnel not far from a since-imploded landmark, the Lamar Hotel, developed by one of Houston's historic giants, Jesse H. Jones, who served in President Franklin D. Roosevelt's cabinet."See," she said, "even the Tunnel Lady doesn't know everything."The tunnels are remarkably diverse, lined with restaurants and coffee bars, boutiques, florists, shoe-repair shops, jewelers, dry cleaners, dental clinics, optometrists, pharmacies, beauty salons, barbers, copy and printing services, banks and post offices.And they are clearly amenities. "It's extremely difficult to be a Class A building without being on a tunnel," said Laura Van Ness, business development director of Central Houston Inc., the nonprofit downtown organization.Ms. Van Ness said annual rents for prime buildings averaged $32.50 a square foot, with Class B buildings going for $27.52.Some shops are themed to the towers above, including landmarks of Houston's rich architectural heritage. Below Pennzoil Place, designed by Philip Johnson and John Burgee, a shop sells Formula One racing go-carts. The exclusive Houston Club sits atop a luxury men's boutique whose owner, Robert Rose, displays his baseball memorabilia, including a vintage poster declaring that Mickey Mantle will not autograph bats, gloves, statutes and other collectibles — signed Mickey Mantle.Under the Hyatt Regency, the Rev. Billy Davis, a part-time Baptist pastor, operates a shoeshine stand with a frequent-shine program: unlimited shines for $100 a year. "I raised six kids in this location," he said. But after 28 years, business is down. "Enron messed me up," Mr. Davis said.Not everyone is an unabashed fan of the tunnels."They don't reinforce the urban confidence of being downtown," said Stephen Fox, an architectural historian and lecturer at Rice University. People who use them, Mr. Fox said, seem reluctant to venture too far afield, afraid of becoming lost. But he said that while Houston was gaining a downtown residential population, "I don't think the street life would be greatly enhanced if the tunnels did not exist."Ms. Lord, a writer and Houston historian, traced the origins of the tunnels to Ross Sterling, an oilman and governor during the Depression, who, inspired by Rockefeller Center, linked two of his downtown buildings underground in the early 1930s. Soon after, an entertainment entrepreneur, Will Horwitz, connected three of his vaudeville and movie theaters to save on air-conditioning.And the tunnels grew from there, despite the private expense of digging connections. The oil bust of the 1980s forced many building owners to compete for business with amenities like tunnels.Many were flooded by Tropical Storm Allison in 2001, prompting installation of submarine-type doors with inflatable rubber insulation for airtight seals. Now, Ms. Lord said, "I'd love to be here in a hurricane, but no one's coming downtown, because how would you get home?"
