Want to sell more? The best advice may be to talk less.The biggest mistake in selling is thinking that  "if you just get the chance to 'make your case' — your prospect  will be compelled to buy," says Lenann McGookey  Gardner, president of YouCanSell.com, a marketing consult in Albuquerque. "Selling is not telling."The reason why,  she writes, on BusinessWeek.com, is because of the way most prospects listen to a sales pitch."When confronted with the opportunity to buy something, the buyer's attitude is always 'Why do I need this,'" Ms. Gardner says. "The more you talk, the more likely you are to say something that causes your buyer to say: 'I don't need that specific feature. That's why I don't have to buy your product!'"Her suggestion is to find out what problems the customer has and then explain why your product or service can help solve them.HOW TO NETWORK (I) Networking, the art of extending the universe of people you can draw on, "is about creating an extended family," says Christine Comaford-Lynch, the  author of the book, "Rules for Renegades" (McGraw-Hill Companies, 2007).She suggests, in a column on businessknowhow.com  that the best way to do it is by taking a "palm up" approach. "Palm up networking embodies the spirit of service, of giving and wanting nothing in return. When you network  'palm down' you're grasping for personal gain," she writes. Palm up, she continues,  is the equivalent of  a "heart-oriented interaction" while  palm down is seen as  "greedy grasping." "The universe has a perfect accounting system," she says. "Give to others, it'll all come back to you in time."HOW TO NETWORK (II) Guy Kawasaki, co-founder of Garage Technology Ventures, a venture capital firm, agrees that a crucial part  of successful networking is determining what you can do for someone else.But in his blog  he provides four additional ideas for networking, or what he calls "schmoozing."1."Schmoozing is an analog, contact sport. You can't do it alone from your office on the phone or via a computer. You may hate them but force yourself to go to trade shows, conventions and seminars."2. "Ask good questions, then shut up."  The idea is find out about the person you are talking to. "Ironically, you'll be remembered as an interesting person," if you get the other person to talk a lot, he says.3.Unveil your passions. Talking only about business gets boring after awhile. "Good schmoozers unveil their passions after they get to know you. Great schmoozers lead off with their passions. Your passions make you an interesting person — you'll stick out because you're the only person not talking about 802.11 chipsets at the wireless conference."4. Ask for the return of favors. Sure you want to give favors. "However, great schmoozers ask for the return of favors. You may find this puzzling: Isn't it better to keep someone indebted to you? The answer is no, and this is because keeping someone indebted to you puts undue pressure on your relationship. By asking for, and receiving, a return favor, you clear the decks, relieve the pressure, and set up for a whole new round of give and take."SUCCESSFUL SALES TIPS With a subtitle like "Secrets From Top Sales Professionals," it isn't surprising that the book, "Masters  of Sales," by Ivan R. Misner and Don Morgan (Entrepreneur Press, 2007) is filled with tips.Here are four of them:¶ Set goals, says the self-help  author, Brian Tracy. "Top salespeople are intensely goal oriented." The more specific the goals, the better the best salespeople tend to do.¶ If you have to cold call, practice your pitch, says  Wendy Weiss, a sales trainer. A salesman who does not  to concentrate on his  presentation can actually listen to what the person on the other end of the phone has to say.¶ If you get a chance to meet with a prospect,  do your homework, suggests Keith Ferrazzi, a marketing consultant at  Ferrazzi Greenlight. "A good salesperson does research on companies, but a great salesperson does research on people. No one has ever sold anything to a company. Selling is done with people within the company."¶ The foundation of successful selling is  "honesty, character, integrity, love and loyalty," says Zig Ziglar, a motivational speaker. "With these skills, we can build a business, a life, a family, a friendship and a professional selling career while making a difference in the world in which we live."LAST CALL Today, Oct.  16, is National Boss Day. Did you remember to send yourself a card?An hour north of New York City, in the small Hudson River Valley town of Beacon, there sits an enormous art museum — indeed, with 240,000 square feet of gallery space, it is one of the largest museums to open in this country since the Museum of Modern Art in the late 1930s. Called Dia:Beacon, it houses a fabulous collection of contemporary art: massive torqued sculptures by Richard Serra, minimalist boxes by Donald Judd, string sculptures by Fred Sandback. A gallery the size of a football field is devoted to the iconic fluorescent-light sculptures of Dan Flavin; another gallery, every bit as large, displays 15 equally iconic scrap-metal sculptures by John Chamberlain. A single Andy Warhol wraps around all four walls of one big room. Twenty-five artists, almost all of them people who in the '60s and '70s helped to create the language of contemporary art, take up the entirety of Dia:Beacon. The art represents the permanent collection of the New York City-based Dia Art Foundation. Until Dia:Beacon was built, much of this art had spent decades in storage because Dia had no place to show it.The museum, which opened in 2003, is in a converted Nabisco factory. It sits near the banks of the Hudson, surrounded by trees and grass, slightly apart from the rest of Beacon. It seems almost preternaturally quiet. Natural light streams through rooftop windows that were part of the original factory — and turn out to be, miraculously, perfect for displaying works of art. It doesn't get an abundance of visitors — only about 68,000 last year — but those who make the trip to Beacon absorb the art with a seriousness of purpose that you don't often see in a big modern museum."It is an amazing place and a remarkable achievement," says Jeffrey Weiss, who ran the modern and contemporary art department at the National Gallery in Washington before becoming Dia's director just a few months ago. "The degree of difficulty in creating a space that size!" he added, a touch of awe in his voice. "There are very few places like it."Among the things that make it so rare in this frankly transactional world we live in is the way money is played down. Dia:Beacon's entry fee is only $10. Though it has a few rotating exhibits, they are low-key and long-running, serving almost as a rebuke to the kind of cash-generating blockbuster that animates most museums. Its cafe is as minimalist as its art. Nor does it offer much in the way of a "shopping experience"; its museum store is largely devoid of the tchotchkes that clutter modern museums, focusing instead on expensive art books. +But of course, like all arts institutions, Dia:Beacon couldn't exist without money, specifically rich people's money. And there is one spot at Dia:Beacon where that reality is acknowledged. Outside, by the entrance, four large words have been placed on the brick wall: "Dia:Beacon," it reads, "Riggio Galleries." Then, just inside the entranceway, there is another, more explicit plaque. It says, in part, "The Riggio Galleries are named in honor of Louise and Leonard Riggio for their extraordinary generosity."Leonard Riggio is the rich person who made Dia:Beacon possible. A demanding, emotional, self-made man — a Brooklyn cabbie's son who built Barnes & Noble into the dominant bookseller in America — Riggio was the chairman of the Dia board during the years Dia:Beacon was being built. He believed in it with every fiber of his being. When Dia needed a piece of art to round out its permanent collection, he bought it. When cost overruns occurred, he covered them. When design decisions arose that entailed additional expenses, Riggio wrote the check. Of the $50 million it cost to create Dia:Beacon, Riggio gave at least $35 million. The second-biggest donor, the Lannan Foundation, gave $10 million. Ann Tenenbaum, the vice chairman of the board, and her husband Thomas H. Lee, the Wall Street financier, contributed $2.5 million.But last year, Riggio abruptly, and angrily, resigned as Dia's chairman. He did so shortly after Dia's director, a rising star in the museum world named Michael Govan, announced his own departure, for the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (Lacma). It was Govan who found the Nabisco building and envisioned what it might one day be. And to be blunt, it was Govan who found Riggio to pay for it. Govan is the one who brought Riggio on the board, who whispered in his ear about which pieces of art to buy for the new museum, who consulted with Riggio every day about the cost overruns and the design changes and the million other decisions, large and small, that arose in the five years the two men were building Dia:Beacon. When I interviewed Riggio not long ago, he told me that he viewed himself and Govan as partners in building Dia:Beacon. "We were very close," he said. After Govan left for Los Angeles, Riggio seethed.In an e-mail message he sent me recently, Riggio wrote that being part of Dia and underwriting Dia:Beacon "was one of the most rewarding experiences of my lifetime." He added, "Let me make clear that I would do it all over again in an instant." But in a series of interviews he also made it clear that he felt abandoned by Govan and was embittered by what happened at Dia once Dia:Beacon was finished. He added sadly, "I have a vacuum in my life as far as art is concerned."New York is filled with galleries and concert halls and theaters named for wealthy patrons. The buildings came into being because someone had a vision — a dream, really — and then found someone else, or a group of others, who bought into that vision and paid for it. Patrons are "cultivated," as they say in the museum business, and relationships develop. Whenever you see a patron's name on the wall — the Weill Recital Hall, the Kravis Wing, the Tisch School of the Arts — you can be sure that behind that plaque is some story of a relationship between an ambitious someone from the art world and an ambitious someone from the world of commerce.And sometimes, everybody lives happily ever after. And sometimes they don't."I LOVE THIS PIECE," Len Riggio said.It was a gorgeous Sunday morning in August, and Riggio was coming to the final stop of a brief, animated tour he was giving me of the art on his estate in Bridgehampton on Long Island. A short, dapper, mustachioed man of 66, he has a very clear idea of what he likes: contemporary art — Dia art, you might call it — and that sensibility is everywhere reflected in his Hamptons property. The mansion itself, which he bought in 1979, has been stripped of its formerly ornate touches in favor of a sleek, open, modernist look. The art on the walls has that same feel. Riggio showed me a Flavin light sculpture in his house and a John Chamberlain on his back porch. We walked toward his back lawn, where he has a series of Donald Judd boxes.Finally, on the front lawn, we came to the pièce de résistance: an immense, winding, cavernous sculpture called "Sidewinder." Its twists and torques and long, curved wall of rust-colored steel marked it, unmistakably, as a Richard Serra. We stopped to admire it. "It changes as you look at it from different perspectives," Riggio said. We walked inside the sculpture and around the back of it. We looked at it again. He was right. It felt like a different piece."It's become a Bridgehampton landmark," Riggio said with a touch of pride. What is it about this piece that he loved? I asked him. "This is a 300-ton piece of art, and it looks very light," he began, as if launching into an art lecture. "It enhances the surroundings and is absorbed by the surroundings. Some people find his work foreboding. He doesn't do it intentionally, but it doesn't bother him." Riggio stopped for a minute. Then he started again. "You grope for words," he said finally. "You try to articulate a feeling. But then you say, 'I love this piece.' and that is enough."It's fitting that Riggio would have a giant Richard Serra sculpture on his front lawn because it was through Serra's work, and his instant, emotional reaction to it, that he stumbled onto Dia in the first place. It happened a decade ago when Dia mounted an exhibition of three new Serra sculptures in a building it owns in Chelsea, where most of its exhibitions once took place. By then Riggio was a very wealthy man, worth well over half a billion dollars. Over the years, as he grew richer, he had become a generous benefactor to a handful of causes he believed in, like the Children's Defense Fund, and a serious art collector, whose tastes were already veering toward the kind of minimalist and contemporary art Dia trafficked in.Unlike most wealthy New York art collectors, however, Riggio was not a joiner of boards. Collectors on big, important museum boards have advantages: they get to develop relationships with artists, travel with curators and generally have a ringside seat in the art world that serves their needs as collectors. Riggio, though, has always been one of those people who expect others to say, "How high?" when he says, "Jump." Simply being one of several dozen wealthy peers on a board was never going to appeal to him.Besides, being on a big, important board like that of MoMA or the Metropolitan brings with it undeniable social status, and you can't help suspecting that that was another reason Riggio didn't like museum boards. For all his success and wealth, he lacks a certain polish. "Go to a New York art party and watch the board members," Michael Govan says. "They are all working the room on every level. Len isn't like that. He focuses. He is a very intense guy with his personal relationships." There is something almost raw about Riggio. He can be both fiercely loyal and generous to a fault. But he is brusque and emotional, often seeing slights that aren't really there. He is prone to angry eruptions. And he has a huge chip on his shoulder about his Italian-American background. He has never watched either "The Godfather" or "The Sopranos" because he finds them insulting to Italian-American culture. Just about anybody who knows Riggio knows that he tends to assume that the New York aristocracy — precisely the kind of people who tend to sit on big museum boards — will reject him because of his heritage. So he rejects them first.One person who knew Riggio well was Jay Chiat, a founder of Chiat/Day, the Los Angeles-based advertising firm. Chiat had joined the Dia board in 1996; knowing that Riggio had a similar taste in art, he invited Riggio to join as well. Riggio was noncommital.But when the Serra exhibit opened in 1997, Chiat took Riggio with him. The series of sculptures that Serra had created for the exhibition were called "Torqued Ellipses." There were three of them — all tall and powerful variations on a single theme. As he looked at them, Riggio was overwhelmed."I had an epiphany when I saw the Serras," he says now. As he tells the story, he decided, more or less on the spot, that the three sculptures should always be viewed together. And the only way to insure that was to buy them outright and donate them to Dia. "By making the gift to Dia, I wanted to be part of the process of making sure they were kept together," he says. "Torqued Ellipses" cost Riggio about $2 million. It was the first addition to Dia's permanent collection in more than a decade.It was, Riggio says now, an impulsive thing to do. He knew so little about the institution to which he had just given $2 million worth of art that he assumed the Serra sculptures would simply stay in the Chelsea building forever — not realizing that Dia used that space for rotating exhibitions and didn't have a place to display the art it owned. He didn't know Dia's history. He didn't know that Dia's permanent collection was in storage. And he certainly didn't know that Govan, who had come to Dia three years before from the Guggenheim, was hellbent on finding a way to build a museum to house the Dia collection. Indeed, Riggio had never even heard of Michael Govan. But that would quickly change."It was at that point," Riggio says, "that I discovered Michael, and he discovered me."Not long after speaking to Riggio, I met Michael Govan not far from Riggio's Bridgehampton estate. Although he has been living in Los Angeles for more than a year, Govan still owns a place in Amagansett and happened to be there taking his last few days of vacation. Govan suggested that we meet at something called the Dan Flavin Art Institute just off Bridgehampton's small downtown. He was sitting on a bench sipping a latte outside the entrance when I arrived. "I thought you might want to look at some art," he said.At 44, Govan is movie-star handsome, with a soft, inviting face, a warm affect and just enough gray hair to suggest gravitas. He oozes charm. Though it was a warm August day, he was wearing a tan sports jacket, jeans and cowboy boots.It didn't take me long to realize why Govan wanted to show me the Flavin Institute. A small, sweet museum housed in a converted church, it was created in the 1980s by Dan Flavin to display some of his work — and paid for entirely by Dia. Indeed, it is the kind of project Dia was once primarily known for. Dia had been Flavin's original patron when he came up with the idea for his museum, and though Flavin died in 1996, the foundation has never stopped supporting it.Dia was founded in 1974 by an art dealer named Heiner Friedrich and his wife, Philippa de Menil, the daughter of the great Houston arts patron Dominique de Menil. The two founders loved the contemporary art of the era and quickly began buying the works of Judd, Warhol, Chamberlain and others for their new foundation. Their primary mission, though, was to support their favored artists, to whom they gave money, lots of it, for one-person museums or installations or huge projects they could never otherwise afford. Donald Judd's series of installations in Marfa, Tex., were paid for, in large part, with Dia money. Dia supported such immense, renowned works of "land art" as Walter De Maria's "Lightning Field" in New Mexico and James Turrell's "Roden Crater" in Arizona, which are now collectively known among the Dia faithful as the Western projects. Govan once tried to figure out how much Dia's founders had spent back in that glorious first decade when their patronage appeared to have no limits — back before the 1980s oil bust caused Philippa's family to force her to turn off the money spigot, plunging the foundation into financial crisis. (Philippa's grandfather was Conrad Schlumberger, founder of the oil-services company that bore his name, so the de Menil fortune tended to rise and fall with the price of oil.) "It had to be at least $40 million," Govan said. "A hell of a lot of money for that era."Govan himself first came into contact with Dia while he was working for Thomas Krens, the legendary former director of the Guggenheim Museum. In the museum world, Krens is viewed as a restless builder — someone with a deep need to have an impossibly difficult project on his plate at all times. In terms of paying for such projects, he tended to latch onto one well-heeled patron rather than conducting a broad fund-raising effort. For instance, the money behind the Guggenheim's famous outpost in Bilbao, Spain, was the Basque government. For years, the Guggenheim's biggest individual patron was Peter B. Lewis, the chairman of the Cleveland-based Progressive Corporation, who donated $77 million to the museum over 11 years. But in 2005, Lewis resigned as chairman of the Guggenheim board, the relationship having soured because Krens refused to abide by Lewis's wish that he curb his expansionist impulses. "No patron, no project," Govan likes to say. That is a logical philosophy for anyone who has worked for Thomas Krens.When I asked Riggio about Govan, he described him, in effect, as a chip off the Krens block. "I think Michael is a person who, among other things, likes to build museums," he said. "He likes to build, build, build." This is a notion with which Govan himself takes umbrage — even though part of the reason he took the job in Los Angeles was to take charge of an ambitious three-phase building project; the first phase alone will cost $156 million.Still, he was undeniably a Krens acolyte. Govan first worked for Krens at Williams College, where he was a student and Krens was running the Williams College Museum of Art. A year after Krens got the job at the Guggenheim, he hired Govan, who was then 27, as his deputy director. At the Guggenheim, Govan won his spurs by landing a large cache of contemporary art that Krens had long coveted — the Panza Collection, it was called, which now forms the backbone of the museum's contemporary art collection. As a result of landing that collection, which included many of the artists Dia supported, Govan got to know Charles Wright, a wealthy Seattle lawyer. Wright was then Dia's director — and was desperately looking for someone to take his place. In 1994, Govan agreed to take the job, with Wright staying on as chairman. By then, he was all of 31.As Govan tells the story, he had no idea how dire Dia's financial problems were until he actually arrived on the scene. "I misread the financial statement," he says. "There was a one-time gift on the income statement that I thought was on-going operating income." The foundation had pulled through the crisis brought on by the Texas oil bust, though just barely: Donald Judd had threatened to sue when his money was cut off, and New York State had conducted an investigation into its finances. Lawyers ruled the board. The annual giving of the entire board didn't crack $100,000 a year.So Govan did what ambitious museum directors always do in such circumstances: he began cultivating new board members. Govan had been advising Ann Tenenbaum and Tom Lee, who had begun dating and would soon marry, about a painting they wanted to buy; he brought her on the board. He recruited other wealthy art collectors as well. Within a few years, most of the old guard had been pushed off the board. The new trustees put together a three-year, $3 million bridge fund to give Govan a little maneuvering room. He was off and running.There was a second reason Govan needed a different board. Wright had recruited him with a very specific purpose in mind: to build a museum to house Dia's permanent collection. Indeed, why else would an ambitious 30-year-old take over an institution that had become as stagnant as Dia? He wanted the chance to do something, to leave his mark. In recruiting new board members, he talked to them about the wonders of the permanent collection and the need to build a great museum where it could be seen. He instilled in them the belief that they, too, would have a chance to leave their mark.Nobody's imagination was more excited than Riggio's. "Michael knew that I had the same interest he did, which was to create great spaces for art that were accessible to the public," Riggio says. "And how it developed was that Michael took me to the Western projects, and I had never seen anything more magnificent. He told me about the permanent collection. It was in storage. I asked him why. He said, 'We really don't have the money, and we don't have a place to display it.' " That was pretty much all Riggio needed to hear.By the time Riggio joined the Dia board, it was clear that the new museum could never be put in New York City, where it would be impossible to find the gargantuan space Dia needed. Govan took him to North Adams, Mass., which was turning some abandoned factories into what eventually became Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art. Govan had been trying to work out a deal with MassMoCA, and in his version, the deal was running into roadblocks. Riggio's memory is a little different. "I wasn't particularly interested in a big building project in Massachusetts," he says. "I told Michael that I would help him find a place and that it had to be someplace in New York."As it happens, Govan, who is a pilot, had flown over a possible location — the Nabisco factory. He took Riggio to see it. "We found it," Govan recalls, "and it was for sale. After a long negotiation, we wound up getting it as a donation. Len was part of the decision. At that point, we were still trying to coax him into getting involved. He saw Beacon, and it wasn't rocket science. Anyone who had a Dia aesthetic could see that this was the place. Serra and the other artists thought so, too. All we needed was for someone to buy into a partnership relationship."When I interviewed him a few days earlier, Riggio had told me his own version of these events, in which his role was more central. "It was just a seedy, broken-down place," he said. "I saw the place and went wild for it — I think because I had had the experience over a lifetime of building bookstores in some very unorthodox spaces. Michael has a great eye and a great vision, and he saw the same thing. So at that point, our visions were seamless. He and I then discovered the northern light that came through the windows that the architects of the age had installed. So we brought the board up there, and the board agreed, right on the spot, that we should build a museum."Talking to Govan, it began to dawn on me that the story he was telling me was ever-so-subtly at odds with the one I'd heard from Riggio. So I began to push Govan on the divergence between their two memories — particularly on the question of whether Riggio's role in the early stages was as prominent as Riggio made it out to be. But as soon as Govan realized what I was trying to do, he pulled back. His attitude seemed to be that the patron controlled the story line and that even though he was now in L.A., dealing with an entirely new set of patrons at Lacma, there was nothing to be gained in contradicting Riggio. I had also heard that over time, as Riggio began to assert himself, in that brusque, demanding manner of his, it became a difficult relationship for Govan to manage. Govan wouldn't go there, either. "No patron, no project," he shrugged at one point.Clearly, there were enormous benefits to Govan in Riggio's sense of self-importance. The most prominent, of course, was that the museum would be built. Once Riggio took psychological ownership of Dia:Beacon, the museum had its patron.As Dia:Beacon slowly took shape, Riggio spent hours talking to Govan. The two men would travel to look at art together. They consulted on every detail having to do with Dia. Riggio would call Govan and Dia's long-time curator, Lynne Cooke, whenever he was thinking of buying a piece of art for himself, to get their opinion or just to shoot the breeze about the art world. As time went on, Govan began spending time at Riggio's Bridgehampton estate, where the two men would talk about art — and everything else. On some weekends, Govan and his family would have dinner with the Riggios, and their families became friendly. Indeed, during my interview with Govan, Riggio's adult daughter happened to walk by; she did a small double-take when she saw him. They quickly embraced and caught up, friends who had once been close and no longer were.One of the difficulties of the sort of relationship that Govan and Riggio were developing is that it is easy to view it, through a certain lens, as manipulative. Later, after Govan departed for Los Angeles, Riggio's supporters would say that Govan had befriended Riggio merely to get something he desperately wanted: a great museum. Riggio, they said, viewed Govan almost like a son, while Govan had always seen their relationship in more businesslike terms and had taken advantage of Riggio. But Riggio wanted the museum every bit as badly as Govan did. So if Govan was, in fact, using him, then Riggio was using Govan as well.Govan also came to have a great deal of respect for Riggio. He loved the fact that Riggio felt a deep connection to the art. He also respected Riggio's financial savvy. "In money terms, Len saw Dia:Beacon as a value proposition," Govan says now. "That whole building, soup to nuts, cost less to build than the parking lot at Lacma. Len totally understood that."He did not, however, view his friendship with Riggio in the same emotional terms that Riggio did, and he certainly didn't see him as a father figure. For this, he makes no apologies. "Over the years," he says, "almost everyone associated with Dia has had intense feelings — it breeds closeness. Len is like that. He needs to have close relationships. But that kind of familial characterization? He never treated me that way in the relationship. He treated me as a collaborative partner." He went on: "We had an exchange. I taught him some things about art, and he taught me some things about business. I don't think it was an uneven exchange. It was an exciting adventure. He helped create a great thing. His name is on it."Riggio's generosity, while making a museum possible, caused the other trustees to feel as if they had no say in the shape the new museum was taking. And in truth, they didn't. Because Riggio was writing the checks, he felt that his opinion was the only one that mattered. He made little effort to create a collaborative board or even to invite much in the way of discussion; he generally expected the board to rubber-stamp the decisions he made in concert with Govan. Like most institutions that collect art, Dia had a collections committee, but when Riggio wanted to buy a piece for the permanent collection, he simply bought it. He treated the Dia board more like a subsidiary of Barnes & Noble than a group of colleagues. Even Riggio seems to concede the point — without quite understanding what he's conceding. "I prided myself on being an arbitrator," he told me at one point. But then, in almost the next breath, he recalled one board meeting "where I let them all yell and scream because Jay Chiat wanted to pick a name architect for the building and Michael and I wanted an unarchitected building." Dia did not hire a name architect."He is a prickly character," says Charles Wright, who remained a Dia board member, "and a huge force of nature. I listened to him more than I talked to him." Board members who disagreed with a Riggio decision would invariably get an irritated phone call from him. "I am the patron," he would say, "and I will make the decision." Riggio himself told me that a trustee told him once, "It is unfair that you are spending so much money." His voice rose angrily. "When people say I ran roughshod over the board. . . ." He let out a small sigh. "That is a characterization I always expect because of my background."On the one hand, Riggio could sound beleaguered that so much of the burden of paying for Dia:Beacon rested on his shoulders. On the other hand, other trustees, some of them wealthier than Riggio, had the distinct impression that he didn't want their money. After all, it would make the museum less his. For Govan, this created problems, since, after all, he had recruited almost everyone on the board and wanted good relationships with them. One of his tasks became to listen sympathetically as the other trustees complained about Riggio.Overall, though, Riggio's approach made Govan's life much easier. It meant that he only had to focus on a small number of relationships in order to get the museum built. And it meant that he didn't have to get the consensus of the board whenever he wanted to make a change that added to the museum's cost. All he needed was Riggio's assent.Besides, as Govan would later put it to me, "when you look at the big gestures in the history of art, it is a story of individuals, whether it's the Medicis or J. Paul Getty. You couldn't have done Beacon by committee," he said. When I asked Riggio about the potential dangers of having one person pay so much of the building's cost, he echoed Govan. "According to Michael and my reading of history," he said, "many of the great creative projects in the world began with a single patron."In retrospect, the real surprise is not that Govan eventually left Dia once the museum was built but that he stayed on for another three years. Dia:Beacon opened to the public in the spring of 2003, to enormous acclaim. Govan had done what he had come to Dia to do. He had built a first-class museum, becoming in the process one of the biggest stars in the museum world. He had also spent nine years at Dia and was not yet 40. Though he loved the art and artists he worked with, his ambition had hardly waned. And he was being wooed by bigger, wealthier institutions.Govan says that he stayed on mainly because he loved Dia so much. But it is also true that staying meant he was going to get a chance to build something else — something in New York City.+Around the time Dia:Beacon opened, the trustees decided to padlock the space in Chelsea where the foundation had long held its exhibitions. The decision was an easy one: the building was badly in need of repair, and Dia couldn't really afford the renovation and upkeep, especially because Dia:Beacon was now going to command so much of the foundation's resources. But that also meant that Dia no longer had much of a Manhattan presence. And everybody associated with Dia firmly believed that was important. "As great as Beacon is," Wright says, "we need something that catches the eye in New York City."So now, as Govan went about recruiting board members, he filled their heads with a new dream: the chance to build something wonderful in New York City. He began scouting out locations and thinking about what purpose the space would serve. Eventually, he found a spot that he thought would be perfect: an empty lot on Gansevoort Street, at the entrance to an abandoned elevated railway line called the High Line. It was a rundown area of Manhattan that the city planned to turn into a park, with lots of shops and amenities. Govan's initial estimate for a a new site on Gansevoort Street was in the range of $40 million — a number that gradually rose to $75 million. Several of the Dia trustees, most notably a woman named Nathalie de Gunzburg, a French native married to a Seagram's heir, were convinced that Dia could raise the money. But there were others who felt that it would divert attention away from what should be the foundation's primary focus: Dia:Beacon. Not surprisingly, the leader of this camp was Len Riggio.By his account, Riggio never openly voiced opposition to the idea of a New York site during board meetings; on the contrary, he pledged $5 million, more than any other trustee. But he did express reservations — lots of them. There was no doubt among the other board members that Riggio didn't really want a New York City space for Dia. Dia:Beacon, Riggio told me, "was still only 85 percent finished." It needed more art. It needed a larger endowment to cover its $3 million or so in annual costs. He clearly wanted Dia:Beacon to be the foundation's centerpiece forever, without having to compete with a New York City entity that would inevitably drain attention and money. "My opinion is that it was O.K. so long as we kept our priorities straight and so long as we had the money," Riggio says."Len had put so much energy in Dia:Beacon," de Gunzburg says in her thick Parisian accent. "It was his baby. So maybe the attention going away from his baby made him a little hurt."What Riggio certainly wasn't going to do was pay for the new building himself. "Michael's goals and dreams were clearly outsized," he told me in one of our conversations — and he says he made it clear to Govan that he was not going to play the same role he had in the building of Dia:Beacon. "Looking at my own resources," he told me, "my family could make a commitment to Beacon, but we didn't have the ability to fund Beacon, Gansevoort Street and the Western projects." Riggio says he told Govan that "I have given everything I had on Beacon. I put my heart, my spirit, my money. I was worn out." A kind of stalemate took hold at the Dia board meetings. There were no outright fights, but there was a constant, underlying tension as Riggio and the other board members sought to control the debate over the New York City site. Even so, in 2005, Dia announced its intentions to build on Gansevoort Street. It was as if Govan had decided that the announcement itself would prod the board to come up with the money to pay for it. But it didn't.In February 2006, Govan dropped a bombshell on the Dia board. He was leaving to run the L.A. County Museum of Art, one of the fastest-growing museums in the country — and one that had already begun the first phase of its ambitious building campaign. Michael Govan is now in charge of that campaign, which, of course, means he is now busy building relationships with potential patrons in Los Angeles, starting with Lacma's 38-member board, which includes such wealthy collectors as Eli Broad and Barbra Streisand.When I asked Govan if he left Dia because of the stalemate over the New York City project, he said no. He had resisted Lacma's entreaties for a very long time, he said. He agonized about leaving. But in the end the lure of L.A. was more than he could resist: the museum resides on public land, so he doesn't have to worry about nettlesome New York real estate issues. He will have an amazingly free hand, money for his operating budget from the county and, of course, all those wealthy collectors. Besides, he said: "I had been at Dia 12 years. You had to figure that anything Dia does in New York will be done by a new group of people and a new set of patrons. If you want the place to stay fresh, it is probably not such a bad thing to have a new director."But there was one other factor. Govan was also worn out. The dynamics of the Dia board — dynamics that Govan himself had helped put in place in his desire to get Dia:Beacon built — had taken their toll.As Govan was trying to decide whether to move to Los Angeles, he and Riggio spent hours talking about it. "Len was disappointed," Govan says. But he says he felt Riggio understood why he needed to take the new job. And Riggio did understand, up to a point. "He saw Lacma as a huge canvas and the ultimate project," Riggio told me. "But his departure came at a tough time." He added, "Looking back, I guess we had a separation of sorts."In fact, in the immediate aftermath of Govan's departure, Riggio seethed. In his view, Govan had left him holding the bag. He was now chairman of a board that had announced a big building project that he didn't want and that no one else on the board seemed all that interested in financing. And in his anger, he lashed out. With Govan no longer on the premises, meetings went from being tense but cordial to being openly contentious. Most of the trustees felt loyal to Govan, so they were shocked when Riggio began to say things that made it seem as if the departed director had left them in the lurch. Govan's departure somehow allowed all their lingering resentments toward Riggio to bubble to the surface.Later Riggio would say that the board's newly confrontational approach was what caused him to quit. He felt it was unfair, after all he had done. But a number of former Dia board members say that they were the ones offended as Riggio's own anger at Govan's departure began to show.All the anger, on both sides, coalesced over one issue. Surprisingly, it wasn't about whether to build in New York City.On his way out the door, Govan had taken $1.8 million from Dia's general fund and used it to make a grant to help underwrite an enormous Western land project called "City," by Michael Heizer, to which both he and Dia had long been committed. (Govan sits on the Heizer Foundation's board.) This was not unusual; "City" was exactly the kind of ambitious, continuing art installation that Dia had always supported. In the past, though, Govan had then persuaded Riggio to pay for the grant out of his own pocket, thus reimbursing Dia.Although Riggio always paid, he didn't like the way Govan gave Heizer the money first and then sought the reimbursement, and it was a source of tension between the two men. Riggio wanted to know, in advance, how much projects like "City" were going to cost and how they were going to be paid for. "I wanted it done properly," he says. For his part, Govan felt Riggio's approach was unrealistic; the artists needed the money to keep the work going, and he felt his way made the most sense. It was also in keeping with Govan's style to get something going first and then figure out how to pay for it later. As long as Govan was Dia's director, he and Riggio could agree to disagree and keep the dispute to themselves.Now Govan was gone. And Riggio decided that he wasn't going to pay this time. Instead, he described the transaction to the other trustees in a way that made it sound as if Govan had done something nefarious. That, in turn, infuriated those who felt that Riggio was using this incident as a way to strike back at Govan for leaving.At a climatic board meeting, de Gunzburg and several other trustees began doing something they had never done before: they began shooting skeptical questions at Len Riggio. He blew up, he quit as chairman on the spot and walked out of the room. Riggio says he left because his wife, who was there, had begun to cry. A few days later, he tried to undo the damage. But it was too late. After a flurry of angry e-mail messages, his resignation was officially accepted by the Dia board, and he became just another board member. Last May, de Gunzburg became the new Dia chairman, and Riggio left the board altogether. Shortly after that — with real estate prices and construction costs skyrocketing and with no director to lead the way and no patron willing to pay for the thing — de Gunzburg informed New York that Dia was officially withdrawing from the Gansevoort Street project.For his part, although Riggio walked away from Dia, he remains committed to the art. He now spends some of his money backing Donald Judd's foundation in Marfa, Tex.One day in late August, a few blocks from Dia's administrative offices in Chelsea, I had coffee with Dia's new director, Jeffrey Weiss. At 49, he is a soft-spoken, mild-mannered man who has spent most of his career as a curator. That means, among other things, he has been spared the kind of relentless fund-raising that is a museum director's lot, devoting most of his career instead to working with art and artists. Although his appointment as Dia's director was announced in February, he stayed on at the National Gallery through the spring because a big Jasper Johns exhibit he has organized was running. When we talked, he had really only been on the job for a few months.Like Govan before him, Weiss was steeped in the artists Dia has long championed; in 2004, he had worked on a big Flavin retrospective with Govan, which opened at the National Gallery. Not surprisingly, he had nothing but good things to say about Dia:Beacon, about his predecessor — and about Len Riggio. "Len was an incredible patron," Weiss said. "What he accomplished with Michael was truly remarkable."In Weiss's view, Dia is now in decent financial shape. It owns a lot of valuable real estate. Govan helped shore up its finances, and before he left, Riggio donated some Barnes & Noble stock to Dia's endowment, which now totals $57 million — $28 million of which is dedicated to Dia:Beacon. When you throw in board contributions, foundation grants and other revenue sources, Dia is a break-even operation.But of course break-even only works if you don't have ambition, and Weiss, like Govan before him, has ambition. He wants to create a presence in New York City. "I think New York needs Dia," he says. His goal — indeed, his mandate — is to find a place in Manhattan where Dia can mount exhibitions just as it used to do in Chelsea. Weiss told me that he was happy that the Gansevoort Street project died: the cost had risen precipitously, and the area was already becoming too commercial for Dia. He is searching for space in a part of the city that you don't necessarily associate with the high-end art world — Harlem maybe. "At this point, I would like to reclaim a historic building," he said.Even before he decides which route to take, though, he will need to find patrons willing to pay for it. He will need to cultivate new board members. He will need to get them excited about the idea of having their names attached to something great and lasting.He shot me a wry smile as we walked out of the coffee shop. "I will shortly be in fund-raising mode," he said.WASHINGTON — On the seventh floor of an office building near the White House, dozens of traders are sitting at computer terminals, studying global trends in currencies, commodities and interest rates, looking for ways to maximize returns for one of the world's biggest money market funds.But this is the trading floor at the World Bank, best known for tapping government coffers  to fight poverty. Less well understood, the bank also oversees $55 billion in readily tradable assets in its own portfolio and those  of  governments and groups that have asked the bank to manage their assets.Like any big corporation's treasury department, the bank employs modern Wall Street hedging techniques like currency and interest rate swaps to protect its own funds. Increasingly, it also helps poor countries by supplying risk-management services or acting as a partner in their hedging activities — sometimes in competition with Wall Street banks.Now, Robert B. Zoellick, president of the World Bank since July, wants to expand these efforts further to help poor countries make their money work harder, supplementing its traditional programs to fight poverty, disease and wretched living conditions.This week Mr. Zoellick will be outlining his priorities when he meets in Washington with finance officials from around the globe at the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Bank officials say his mission to leverage the bank's capital by sharing its risk-management skills and increasing lending to countries like China and India — the so-called middle-income countries — and the private sector will be a highlight of his debut on the international stage."I want us to be better partners with our clients by offering financing services and knowledge services so they can develop their own markets and their own expertise," Mr. Zoellick said in an interview. "We've got the capital at the World Bank, and we can leverage it more effectively."When three provinces in Colombia, for example, borrowed dollars from the bank, they entered into a currency swap with the bank to protect the value of their loan for projects that had to be paid in pesos. The bank is generally using such swaps to make it easier for a variety of countries to set up bond markets in their own currencies.Bank officials say a coffee-exporting country might do a commodities swap with the bank to protect itself against price fluctuations in coffee. Or a Southeast Asian country taking out yen loans from Japan for an aid project, but getting paid in dollars from its exports, might ask the World Bank for a currency swap that hedges the risk in converting its earnings to repay the loan.Since taking office, Mr. Zoellick — a former trade envoy, diplomat and Goldman Sachs executive — has called for the bank to do more in this area as part of a general theme that the bank can stretch itself to become more relevant in a world where poor countries can turn to a lot of places for loans.In a speech last week, the new president said the bank's main priorities would be combating poverty, speeding aid to countries torn by war, promoting regional cooperation to combat disease and climate change, aiding the Arab world and providing technical assistance.But the leveraging of assistance to middle-income countries that is, as he puts it, "faster, better and cheaper" than its aid in the past is likely to be Mr. Zoellick's signature issue, along with his determination to tap revenues from loans to these countries and private sector businesses  for use by the poorest countries. For example, the arm of the bank that aids private sector projects has helped private Chinese companies issue corporate bonds.Critics say that Mr. Zoellick is simply looking for ways to expand the World Bank's role when he should be shrinking it and focusing on helping the poorest of the poor countries. China sits on more than a trillion dollars in reserves and even has its own multibillion-dollar aid program with projects in Africa, Latin America and Asia."The bank should not be involved in lending to countries that can get credit on their own," said Ian Vasquez, director of the Center for Global Liberty and Prosperity at the Cato Institute, a libertarian policy group in Washington. "In employing these risk-management strategies, the bank is displacing market actors. It should not be using taxpayer money  — which is where the money comes from — for those purposes."Mr. Zoellick rejects such criticism as reflecting a misunderstanding of what "middle income" poor countries like China and India need and want."They want our financial services as well as our knowledge on poverty, energy, health and education," he said. "These countries want our expertise, and it makes sense to package that expertise with services in asset and liability management."Mr. Zoellick's efforts were also met with some skepticism at the Treasury Department when he laid out his agenda. One area he mentioned, officials said, was for the bank to provide disaster insurance to poor countries to protect against floods or drought. According to bank and Treasury officials, there were some concerns that the bank would be competing with big commercial and investment banks that offer these services.But various officials said Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., who helped choose Mr. Zoellick for the job after Paul D. Wolfowitz, the former deputy defense secretary, resigned in the wake of an ethics scandal, backed him and his proposals enthusiastically.Mr. Zoellick said the bank was going only where the private banks were not ready to go."This idea of competing with the private sector is more theoretical than real," he said. "In my time at Goldman Sachs, I never once heard anyone mention any concern about competition with the World Bank."Many investment bankers agree, saying that even if private sector institutions lost business to the World Bank, they would more than make up for it in the long run once countries are weaned off the World Bank's aid."I would say, 'More power to you, Mr. Zoellick,'" said Antoine van Agtmael, chairman of Emerging Markets Management, a consulting firm, who is widely credited with coining the term "emerging markets" several years ago."I have heard that some investment banks are whining about losing business," Mr. Van Agtmael said. "What they should think about is the new business that the World Bank is creating for them in the future."The World Bank's entry into the arena of swaps and other hedging strategies is only one way that Mr. Zoellick wants to leverage bank resources. He also hopes to use the income earned by lending to middle-income countries and businesses in poor countries to pay for poverty programs.In September, Mr. Zoellick persuaded the bank's board to tap $3.5 billion in revenue from the middle- income-country lending facility and the private-sector- lending facility to help pay for an ambitious effort to raise nearly $40 billion for programs for the poorest countries in the next three years."That was not an easy decision for the board," said a bank official, speaking anonymously because the discussions were confidential. "The emerging countries on the board were worried that his strategy would be an excuse for rich countries not to deliver the aid that they promised."The World Bank, established at the end of World War II to help European countries get back on their feet, has mobilized more than a trillion dollars for aid programs in more than 60 years of existence.The bank aids middle-income poor countries by borrowing money at low cost with its triple-A credit rating, and then lending at a slightly higher rate. Mr. Zoellick recently cut interest rates charged to the middle-income countries. While that means lower returns on those loans, bank officials hope  those countries will borrow more,  thus increasing funds available to poor countries.Because of an editing error, an obituary on Oct. 1 misidentified the deceased in some editions.  He was Harry S. Dent Sr., who helped devise the "Southern strategy" that was crucial to Richard M. Nixon's winning the White House in 1968. Harry S. Dent Jr. did not die. As the obituary noted in one reference, he survives his father.  (Go to Article)A brief report yesterday in the Today in Business column in Business Day about an effort by the buyers of Sallie Mae to dissolve the merger misstated the size of the deal in some editions. It is $24 billion, not million.For the RecordA front-page article on Saturday about the latest accounts of a shooting in Baghdad by Blackwater security guards misstated the time frame for the episode in some copies. And because of an editing error, the article also gave an incorrect date in some editions for the shooting. It was on Sept. 16; it was neither "last week" nor on Sept. 14.  (Go to Article)An article on July 5, 1994, about James B. Blair, then the general counsel for the Tyson Foods company and a longtime confidant and personal emissary for Bill and Hillary Clinton, misstated benefits that Tyson received from the state of Arkansas while Mr. Clinton was governor. Although the company did benefit from at least $7 million in state tax credits, it did not receive $9 million in loans from the state. (The error appeared in three other articles and in an editorial in 1994, all of which were corrected on April 20 of that year. The correction should have been appended then in The Times's archives to those articles: one on the front page on March 18 about Mrs. Clinton's commodity trades in the late 1970s; a March 19 article about President Clinton's defense of Mrs. Clinton's investments; a March 30 article about the White House's disclosure of the amount Mrs. Clinton invested in commodities trades, and a March 31 editorial.)The error in the July 5 article was discovered during research after the watchdog group Media Matters twice pointed out that the 1994 correction had not been appended to the other articles. (Go to Article)An article in some editions on Friday about the media spotlight on Dover, N.J., which is inspecting all of the town's gum and candy machines after an alderman raised the specter of tampering by terrorists, misspelled the surname of a business owner who said five of his candy machines had been removed, and misspelled the name of his business. He is Raymond Danon, not Doran, and his business is Danon's Auto Parts, not Doran's Auto Parts.  (Go to Article)A front-page article on Oct. 4 about the economy of the Baltimore metropolitan area misstated the extent to which sales of homes had slowed in the City of Baltimore, as opposed to the five suburban counties surrounding it. About one-third of the slowing occurred in the city — not "nearly all." (The city accounted for a larger percentage of the slowdown in sales than any of the suburban counties.)  (Go to Article)A headline in the Today in Business column in Business Day on Monday with a brief report about the Royal Canadian Mint misidentified the rights that the mint holds on the Canadian penny. It has a copyright on the penny's image, not a trademark.An article in Business Day on Monday about Pro Publica, a nonprofit group that plans to offer investigative journalism projects to media outlets, misstated the location of the Center for Investigative Reporting, which supports similar work. It is in Berkeley, Calif., not San Francisco. (The organization moved from San Francisco in 2005.)  (Go to Article)A sports article in some editions on Sunday about Oregon State's upset victory over No. 2 California on the same day that No. 1 Louisiana State lost misstated the last time Cal was ranked No. 1 in college football. It was October 1951, not "70 years ago." (The Golden Bears were also No. 1 in 1937.)  (Go to Article)A film review and listing of credits on Saturday about Tyler Perry's new movie omitted part of the title. (The error also appeared in an article on Saturday about black women who went to see it on opening day, and in a Sunday Styles article the next day about Mr. Perry.) The movie is "Tyler Perry's Why Did I Get Married?" — not "Why Did I Get Married?"The article in Sunday Styles also gave incorrect titles for one of Mr. Perry's previous movies. It is "Diary of a Mad Black Woman" — not "Diary of Mad Housewife" or "Diary of a Mad Housewife." ("Diary of a Mad Housewife," based on the book of that title, was a 1970 film with which Mr. Perry had no connection.)   (Go to Article)The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper's journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com.An article on Monday about the refusal of Israeli officials to confirm or deny a report in The Times that the Israeli Air Force had bombed a Syrian facility on Sept. 6 overstated the conclusion Israeli and American intelligence analysts had drawn about the target. While they judged the facility to be a partly constructed nuclear reactor, they said it was of apparent North Korean design; they did not say so definitively. The article also misstated the background of Uzi Arad, the national security adviser under former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who said it was plausible that a nuclear reactor had been bombed. Mr. Arad once worked for Mossad, Israel's intelligence agency; he is not "a former head of Mossad."  (Go to Article)A front-page article on Tuesday  about the cancellation of several million homeowners' insurance policies in the Northeast over the last three years because of insurers' hurricane fears referred incorrectly to the actions of two insurers, State Farm and Liberty Mutual. Although both have canceled existing policies in the Northeast, they have not in fact turned down all new homeowners' business in New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Maryland, Massachusetts and eight New York counties. The article also referred incorrectly to a warning from the New York State insurance commissioner to several insurers, telling them that requiring homeowners to carry other kinds of insurance as a condition of continuing their homeowners' policies is illegal in New York. State Farm was not among the insurers that sent that warning.  (Go to Article)A brief report on Tuesday in the Today in Business column in Business Day, about an effort by the buyers of Sallie Mae to dissolve the merger, misstated the size of the deal in some editions, and a correction in this space yesterday gave another incorrect amount. The deal is $25 billion — not $24 billion or $24 million.For the RecordA picture in some copies yesterday with an article about appointees of Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York whose nominations are in limbo because of continuing hostilities between Mr. Spitzer and the State Senate was published in error. It showed Senator William J. Larkin Jr. — not Patrick Foye, the nominee for chairman of the Urban Development Corporation.  (Go to Article)An article in Business Day on Saturday about the risks facing Google misspelled the name of a start-up company that is working on a competing search method. It is Hakia, not Haika.  (Go to Article)A sports article on Oct. 10 about the fate of Marion Jones's Olympic medals after she admitted using performance-enhancing drugs misstated the given name of a competitor from Jamaica who won a bronze medal in a race in which Jones won the gold. She is Tayna Lawrence, not Tanya. The article also misstated the name of an international organization that settles athletic disputes. It is the Court of Arbitration for Sport, not of Sport.  (Go to Article)The Abroad column in The Arts yesterday, about the new National Center of the History of Immigration in Paris, misstated the proportion of people who acknowledged in a poll two years ago by France's National Human Rights Commission that they held racist views. It was one-third, not two-thirds.  (Go to Article)A report in the "Arts, Briefly" column yesterday about the naming of John Podhoretz as the new editor of the journal Commentary misstated the year in which he will succeed Neal Kozodoy, the current editor. It will be January 2009, not 2008.   (Go to Article)A report in the "Arts, Briefly" column on Tuesday about the planned return of "Godspell" to Broadway next summer and the 2007-8 theater season for the Women's Project misstated the given name of the director of the new "Godspell" production. He is Daniel Goldstein, not David. The report also misspelled the surname of the playwright whose work "crooked" will be presented by the Women's Project. She is Catherine Trieschmann, not Treischmann.   (Go to Article)The Q&A column in Science Times on Tuesday, about the difference between the chemical compounds diethylene glycol and polyethylene glycol, included an extra element in the chemical composition of polyethylene glycol. It contains carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, but not nitrogen. (The chemical formula is sometimes rendered with an "n" to designate a given number of repeated units.)  (Go to Article)Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about the photographer Ernest C. Withers, who documented life in the segregated South in the 1950s and '60s, from the civil rights movement to the Memphis blues scene, misidentified the person he photographed arm in arm with Elvis Presley at a Memphis club in 1956. It was B. B. King, not the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.  (Go to Article)The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper's journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com.PeopleThe Blackstone Group hired Francisco Rey, formerly a telecommunications banker at Merrill Lynch, for its corporate advisory team in Europe.The Jefferies Group hired Patrick Neal as head of derivatives strategy in its equities division in New York. He was previously at Banc of America Securities.Mark Cawthron and Martha Collins Rolle have joined the law firm Bryan Cave as partners in London. Mr. Cawthron will be a member of the tax advice and controversy client service group. Ms. Rolle will join the banking, business and public finance client service group.Deutsche Bank hired Drausio Giacomelli, previously head of Latin American local markets strategy at JPMorgan Chase, as a managing director and the head of emerging markets strategy.Michele Roller is joining the Bank of Ireland's media finance team. She was a vice president at Merrill Lynch Capital.Karen B. Greenbaum joined Nixon Peabody as chief operating officer and managing director.Bear Stearns International named Christophe Choquart to be managing director, head of European equity sales for France.Steven Rizzi, formerly at Weil, Gotshal & Manges, has joined the New York office of Thelen Reid Brown Raysman & Steiner, where he will specialize in patent litigation.Citigroup named Batara Sianturi as chairman and chief executive of its Hungarian unit.Lehman Brothers Holdings has named Yang Zhizhong as chairman of its China operations. He is currently managing director and head of China investment banking.ALBANY, Oct. 12 — Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo's office is investigating a well-connected American division of the Bank of Ireland as part of its inquiry into the New York State pension fund.The division, Guggenheim Advisors, which is based in New York and caters to wealthy investors, has a board of paid advisers that includes Fred D. Thompson, the Republican presidential candidate and former Tennessee senator, and Lawrence B. Lindsey, a former economic adviser to President Bush.  There is no indication that either one is a subject of the investigation.The Bank of Ireland, which says it is cooperating with the attorney general's office, is also conducting an internal inquiry into the unit.Two executives who run Guggenheim made large donations to the campaign of former Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi last year. In early 2005, Guggenheim secured a $447 million investment from the fund.In the same inquiry, a fund-raiser for Mr. Hevesi, Bill White, has been subpoenaed by the attorney general's office. Investigators are said to be trying to determine if Mr. White, who is the president of the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum in Manhattan, solicited campaign contributions from executives of Guggenheim.Calls to Guggenheim and the Bank of Ireland were referred to Brian Maddox, an outside spokesman for the bank in New York. "Guggenheim Advisors is fully cooperating with the investigation of the attorney general's office," he said, adding that the bank was "undertaking its own internal investigation and has informed all relevant regulatory authorities."Efforts to reach Mr. Lindsey for comment were unsuccessful. Todd Harris, a spokesman for Mr. Thompson, had no comment on the investigation. Mr. Harris said that Mr. Thompson had not been to a board meeting since June. "Fred Thompson is an inactive member of an advisory board where his role is to advise on issues related to national security," he said.Mr. White said, in an e-mail message, "I am voluntarily cooperating with the ongoing matter being reviewed by Mr. Cuomo's office." He added, "It would be inappropriate for me to add anything further at this time."Bradley Simon, a lawyer for Mr. Hevesi, said that "Alan certainly has known Bill White for a long time." Mr. Simon said that Mr. White  raised money for Mr. Hevesi's campaigns, but that Mr. Hevesi had "no personal knowledge of Bill White having anything to do with pension fund business."For the past nine months, Mr. Cuomo's office and the office of P. David Soares, the Albany County district attorney, have been pursuing a broad investigation into relations between the pension fund and companies that managed its money. The state's $154 billion fund is one of the world's largest pools of investment capital, and investment firms can reap lucrative fees by managing even a small fraction of its assets.For decades, investment firms have showered contributions on comptrollers, a practice that troubles government watchdog groups but is legal, except when it can be proved that investment business was given with the understanding that political contributions would follow.Mr. Hevesi, a Democrat, won re-election last November but resigned on Dec. 22 when he pleaded guilty to a felony count for using state workers to chauffeur his ailing wife. Now, investigators are scrutinizing a widening circle of his friends and aides. The Securities and Exchange Commission recently began its own informal inquiry into oversight of the pension fund.The two top executives of Guggenheim, Patrick T. Hughes and Loren M. Katzovitz, each made a $25,000 contribution to Mr. Hevesi last October, according to records maintained by the Board of Elections. There are no other donations close to that size on record from either executive to a state political candidate, though both men have made significant contributions to several Republican candidates for federal office.Guggenheim manages what is known as a "fund of funds" for the state pension fund — acting in effect as an intermediary by investing the $447 million in a variety of hedge funds.Guggenheim has earned $3.2 million in fees since it began managing money for the pension fund in February 2005, according to the comptroller's office.The Bank of Ireland purchased a majority stake in Guggenheim in February 2006, after the firm won the business from the pension fund but before the political contributions were made.Little had surfaced previously about the relationship between Mr. Hevesi and Mr. White. Mr. White, however, has long been an associate of the Fisher family, who started the Intrepid museum and have financed it over the years. The family and its Fisher Brothers development company were major donors to Mr. Hevesi, who for decades held city and state offices.Hank Morris, Mr. Hevesi's former political director, has been linked to six businesses known as placement agents that reaped millions of dollars in fees by arranging deals between the pension fund and investment firms.Mr. Soares's investigators have sought to determine whether Jack Chartier, who was Mr. Hevesi's chief of staff, used his official position to obtain a loan for a friend, the actress Peggy Lipton, from an investment firm that manages pension fund assets.Also, a brokerage firm run by Mr. Hevesi's elder son, Daniel, has been subpoenaed in Mr. Cuomo's inquiry. The firm, Praetorian Securities, acts as a placement agent, but Daniel Hevesi's lawyer has said that it did no business with the state pension fund and that her client did nothing improper.Alan Hevesi raised money prodigiously from investment firms, and several prominent firms made donations to his younger son, Assemblyman Andrew Hevesi of Queens.Dennis Tompkins, a spokesman for the current comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, declined to comment on the inquiries but said that steps had been taken to improve oversight of the pension fund. "We have a new policy that Comptroller DiNapoli implemented that will increase disclosure and prevent the conflicts of interest," he said.
