If you Google the phrase "grow or die," you get more than 11 million hits. So clearly there is something to the idea that if a business is not expanding it is withering away.Here are some ideas that could keep your company thriving.EXPAND THE POND Moving into nearby  markets is often a simple way to increase revenue, as Noel Tichy, a management professor and director of the Global Leadership Program  at the University of Michigan Business School, Chris Zook, head of the global strategy practice at Bain & Company and others have pointed out.Here is one way that can play out. Let's say you dominate the hammer market and because you do, growth is hard to come by.So  you decide to sell hardware of all kinds. By doing so, you have moved into an adjacent market (hardware) where the one you dominate (hammers) can be considered a subset.Expanding the pond is exactly what the major soft drink companies have done. They have redefined the areas in which they compete. They no longer sell just sodas. They offer beverages of all kinds — water, sports drinks and the like.EASY GROWTH One relatively simple way to increase revenue is by trying to sell more to  existing customers.Writing on About.com,  Susan Ward, who with a partner runs Cypress Technologies, a technology consulting firm, offers some ways to do just that. These are among them:¶ "Upsell"  — that is offer related products or services. A company that sells consumer electronics may  offer an extended services contract. A house cleaning company may  offer a discount if you have them clean your windows as well.¶ Share. Let your best customers know when new merchandise will be coming in or going on sale. Odds are they will buy more and probably  tell others.¶ Reward your customers. "How can you expect customer loyalty if all customers are treated as 'someone off the street,' " Ms. Ward asks. "There are all kinds of ways that you can show your regular customers that you value them, from small things such as greeting them by name through larger benefits such as giving regulars extended credit or discounts."ARE YOU COMMITTED? Entrepreneur suggests  that you "rate yourself with this checklist based on questions developed by General Electric's Six Sigma black belts." Answering no to any of them, it says,  may mean it is  "time to reassess parts of your company's growth strategy."1. Your company has "a defined process to tackle and fix problems" raised by customers.2. "We constantly identify waste in our financial, production, time and materials processes and get rid of it."3. "We balance capital efficiently between today's needs and long-term growth."4. There is a defined process for creating, launching and developing new products or services.5. "We've come up with clear growth goals, and we invest in the staff and processes needed to meet these goals."FROM THE BOOKSHELF Robert H. Bloom, the former  chairman in the United States and chief executive of the advertising agency Publicis Worldwide, is convinced that "every enterprise has at least one underutilized existing strength that can be the centerpiece of a powerful growth strategy."To find it, he argues in his book "The Inside Advantage" (written with Dave Conti, McGraw Hill, 2007), you need to follow this four-step process:First you need to ask who is your core customer, the person "most likely to buy your product or service in the quantity required for optimal profit."Second, you need to decide what is the "uncommon offering your business will own and leverage?"Knowing that, the question becomes how will you convince your core customer that your uncommon offering is better than anything else available?And finally, how will you "own" this advantage in the minds of the customer?Mr. Bloom suggests that you can figure all this out in a one-day brainstorming session. That may be overly ambitious. But clearly determining what makes you unique in the minds of your customers is the first step in creating a profitable growth strategy.LAST CALL For an alternative take on growth, consider Emma McCreary's column "Grow Consciously So Your Business Doesn't Eat You Alive."Ms. McCreary describes herself as a "an entrepreneur, Web designer, and a happiness advocate." This is her message: "Don't assume that bigger is better unless bigger is what you really want. Take some time to design your business as it grows."VILNIUS, LithuaniaEVEN as Jonas Kronkaitis, now retired as Lithuania's top general, admires the transformation of this once drab Soviet city into a proud member of the New Europe, a worry eats at him: Russian power is rapidly returning to the Baltics, only this time the weapons are oil and money, not tanks.General Kronkaitis has a unique perspective. He fled Lithuania to America as a boy in 1944, and served nearly 30 years in the United States Army before returning to command his newly independent country's military in the 1990's. He engineered its entry into NATO in 2004, thinking this would help cement security for the tiny Baltic nation. Now he says his hopeful view was wrong.The signs of Russia's resurgent influence are everywhere in Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia: in Kremlin-financed media; in the financing of local politicians and economic development; in a growing assertiveness, encouraged by Moscow, among the third of the Baltic population that is of Russian heritage; in the Kremlin's manipulation of its energy supplies as a bludgeon.These tactics — especially the use of Russian cash — have evoked stress in the Baltics that was unthinkable even five years ago."What we are afraid of is the very huge money that comes from Russia that can be used to corrupt our officials," General Kronkaitis said in an interview. "And I'm talking about very large money. Money can then be used to control our government. Then Lithuania, in a very subtle way, over many years perhaps, becomes dominated and loses its independence.""Over many years" may be an understatement, Baltic nationalists say. In 2004, Lithuania's president was impeached for alleged connections to Russia's secret service and big business.It all seems part of a strategy by President Vladimir Putin to revive Russian power in much of Eastern Europe.For the Balts, any move that angers Russia runs huge risks. Last month, for example, the Estonian state prosecutor charged four ethnic Russians with organizing riots in April to protest the government's move of a statue of a Soviet soldier from the capital to a suburb as the anniversary of victory in World War II neared. The Russian-language press had egged on the protesters."There is reason to believe that financial support and advice to organize mass disorders was also received from the Russian Federation," the prosecutor said. After the riots, hackers briefly paralyzed Estonia's government and banks, and Estonia said the cyberattacks were traced to Kremlin addresses.The tensions over the riots come as the Baltic countries are trying to challenge Russia's energy monopoly. All three are resisting an ambitious Russian-German plan to build a pipeline under the Baltic Sea that would send gas directly from Russia to Western Europe — bypassing the Baltics and cutting them out of transit fees and access to the flow. Estonia has led this opposition, with a challenge on environmental grounds. Many Balts find it disheartening that the former German chancellor, Gerhard Schröder, sits on the board of the joint venture, in which Russians hold a 51 percent interest.Gazprom, the Russian oil giant, already controls more than 35 percent of Baltic gas companies. Latvia has been cut off from an old Russian oil pipeline since 2003 and Lithuania since 2006, forcing them to import more expensive oil by ship. The Russians blame pipeline problems, but Latvians and Lithuanians don't believe that; Estonia was shut off for several weeks after the spring riots.Any Baltic defiance of Russian pressure is made more emotional by their shared and bitter history. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania began the 20th century under Russia's czars but gained independence after World War I.Then, after the Hitler-Stalin nonaggression pact in 1939, Soviet troops swept in and Stalin deported hundreds of thousands of Balts to die in Siberian gulags. When Hitler's troops marched through in turn, many Balts saw the Germans as liberators — and significant numbers collaborated with the Nazis to annihilate the region's Jews.After the war came an influx of Russian workers whose presence would, in time, be cited by the Soviets to claim that these states should never again get independence. For its part, the Putin government has campaigned for ethnic Russians to insist on attaining a stronger voice by accepting Baltic citizenship."In the Baltics, history is a ghost that still walks the streets in a very active way," said Daina Eglitis of George Washington University. "It's not just past, it's present. But people have different readings on it."One example is a Vilnius tourist attraction, the torture chambers of the old K.G.B. headquarters, which had been Gestapo headquarters. It is now the Museum of Genocide Victims, but "genocide" applies only to what Russians did to Balts — not to what Nazis and their local collaborators did to Jews.The museum all but ignores the Baltic people's role in the Holocaust, an omission that angers not only Jews, but also Russians, who view the Soviets as liberators and are now reasserting control over the historical record. For example, a new pan-Baltic Russian-language television station, financed by the Kremlin, often features documentaries that praise the Soviet Union.About one-third of Lithuania's television stations are already in Russian. "Russians buy our politicians, they buy our press, and they buy our minds — I think that's all," Indre Makaraityte, editor of Revival, an independent Lithuanian newspaper, said sarcastically.She organized a demonstration in May to support Estonia against the ethnic Russians' protests and show solidarity with the West. But she says she was disheartened when European and American leaders took a week to condemn Russia after the riots."We became members of NATO and E.U. expecting we would be defended immediately," she said. "There's a fear of Russia, and a fear that we are again alone, not defended by our Western partners. They are too naïve in evaluating Russia."MANY business owners are so consumed with day-to-day operations that they don't think about estate planning. But the federal estate tax, with a top rate of 45 percent, can have a big effect on the business you leave behind, and planning while you are hearty is the best way to manage that.Among the arrangements to make are leaving a source of cash to cover the tax bill and, as much as  you can afford it, giving assets to younger family members while you are alive. These lifetime gifts, as they are called, have a dual benefit: they reduce the size of your taxable estate, and, if the assets increase in value after you have passed them on,  the appreciation is tax free.When Congress was considering a permanent repeal of the  tax, which currently applies to estates worth more than $2 million, small-business owners lost interest in this kind of planning, said Dennis I. Belcher, a lawyer with McGuireWoods in Richmond, Va. But since the repeal efforts failed last year, more clients have asked about lifetime gifts, Mr. Belcher said.Which methods  work best depend on your liquidity needs, tolerance for complexity and whether you act before or after the business has increased in value. Here are some considerations:Reducing business holdings could leave you strapped for cash. The simplest alternative  is to buy life insurance that would cover the tax bill, Mr. Belcher said. Start by setting up an irrevocable life insurance trust, which can buy the policy and, when you die, hold the proceeds for whomever you have named as beneficiary. Without a trust, the policy would be considered part of your estate and the proceeds could be taxed.Next, you need to funnel money into the trust so it can pay the premiums. There is no gift tax on your contributions as long as you stay within the annual limit of $12,000 per recipient, with no limit on the number of recipients. Spouses can pool their gifts to jointly give $24,000 to any person tax free, and each trust beneficiary counts as one person.You don't want to give up control. First, divide the business into voting and nonvoting shares, even if you must recapitalize the company, said Richard L. Dees, a lawyer with McDermott Will & Emery in Chicago. Ideally, voting stock should make up no more than 10 percent of the total company shares, he said.After that, you can give away partial interests in the business. You can make  these gifts to family members directly, but it is better to use an irrevocable trust, which protects the assets from creditors, said Steven B. Gorin, a lawyer with Thompson Coburn in St. Louis.Since gift recipients lack control, and the shares are considered unmarketable, you can value both the gift and the interest you retain at a discount of  35 to  45 percent, lawyers said. The discount on what you give away enables you to pack more into your annual limit, or into the $1 million overall limit on what you can exclude over a lifetime.  (A 45 percent levy kicks in on anything over $1 million.)Giving away too much in business assets could incur  the gift tax. In that case don't give them away — sell them in exchange for a promissory note with interest, said John D. Dadakis, a lawyer with Schiff Hardin in New York. With this strategy, you can also apply discounts and avoid tax on future appreciation. Here, too, it is preferable to use a trust, rather than dealing with family members directly.A liquidity event, like a sale or initial public offering, is on the horizon.  You can transfer the appreciation at little or no gift-tax cost with a grantor retained annuity trust. Here you put company shares into a short-term irrevocable trust and retain the right to receive an annual income stream equal to the value of what you contribute plus interest at a rate set each month by the Internal Revenue Service (the Section 7520 rate). If you survive the trust term — a condition for this tool to work — any appreciation in the trust when the annual payments end passes to your family.On the other hand, if the appreciation never occurs, the business owner is no worse off, said Charles A. Redd, a lawyer with Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal in St. Louis. In this case, the trust would satisfy its payout obligations by returning some of the stock to the owner.As you near  retirement, cash flow can be a concern.  Consider a charitable cash bailout, said David T. Leibell, a lawyer with Wiggin  and Dana in Stamford, Conn. Here,  the owner, who has already transferred some shares to children, puts others into a charitable remainder trust, and the company buys them back for cash at fair market value. The trust uses the cash to supply an income stream to the owner, with the rest going to charity after the owner dies. Meanwhile, the company retires the shares it has bought back, increasing the value of what the children retain. This transaction avoids income tax, gift tax and estate tax, Mr. Leibell said.Whether you choose just one of these strategies or use them in combination, it is best to start with the least complicated approach that will achieve your goals. Lawyers' fees for these transactions can range from less than $10,000 to many multiples of that sum, depending on the details. And any time you give away shares of a business, you must get an appraisal, which can easily cost $5,000 or more. You will want to be sure that what you spend to use  various estate-planning tools is less than your heirs would pay the tax man.Dr. Ellen Meredith Stein, a daughter of Jeanne Stein and Dr. Peter J. Stein of Guilford, Conn., is to be married today to Marc Joseph Mellinger, the son of Janet S. Mellinger and Martin B. Mellinger of Belleville, N.J. Rabbi Jill Hausman is to officiate at the New Haven Lawn Club in Connecticut.The bride, 30, is a first-year fellow in gastroenterology at the Albert Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia. She completed her residency in July at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. She received her medical degree from George Washington University and graduated from Emory.Her father is the owner of Eyeworks CT, an optometry and eyeglass store in Derby, Conn. Her mother is a literacy coach at Public School 171 in New York and retired in June as the principal of Dr. Robert H. Brown Middle School in Madison, Conn.The bridegroom, 34, works in Washington as a political officer in the Foreign Service, writing analysis on the Middle East for the State Department. He graduated from Rutgers and received a master's degree in security policy studies at George Washington University.His father retired as a business administration and accounting teacher at East Orange High School in New Jersey.As John A. Thain prepares to take the reins of Merrill Lynch, he is only the latest example of a tradition borne out across Wall Street, in Washington and around the world. He is a Goldman Sachs alumnus who has reached the top elsewhere.For decades, one investment bank in Lower Manhattan has churned out a golden list of corporate executives and statesmen, wealthy financiers and nonprofit managers.In many ways, Goldman Sachs is seen as the financial world's equivalent of General Electric, the corporate powerhouse, or McKinsey & Company, the management consulting firm. It is a training ground — and finishing school —from which other companies, along with quite a few governments, have frequently plucked their own top leaders.And it has seeded some of the most successful private investment funds, many of them extending Goldman's shadow from Greenwich, Conn., to London and beyond.Goldman claims among its alumni Henry M. Paulson Jr., the current Treasury secretary; Robert E. Rubin, a Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton and now Citigroup's chairman; and Mario Draghi, the Bank of Italy's governor. Jon S. Corzine, New Jersey's governor, led Goldman for several years. Joshua B. Bolten, the current White House chief of staff, is a Goldman alum.Mr. Thain, who left Goldman as president and chief operating officer to take over the troubled New York Stock Exchange and now Merrill, falls squarely in that tradition.To insiders, all this is a result of Goldman's elite culture, a sense of close-knit partnership that has endured despite the firm's decision in 1999 to turn itself into a publicly owned corporation. To detractors, the firm is alternately a cult or a secretive fraternity like Skull and Bones at Yale, one focused on profits and power.The bottom line on Goldman is that it is stocked with bright people who practically mint money. Even as the implosion of the subprime mortgage market forced many of its rivals to take multibillion-dollar write-downs this summer, to cite just the most recent example, Goldman reported a 79 percent increase in profit."It's a partnership culture that truly ruthlessly weeds out people," said Brad Hintz, a research analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein who has worked for two Goldman rivals, Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers. "It's the most elite group."Goldman is a perennial leader in the lucrative practice of advising on mergers and acquisitions. Its few recent mistakes, including troubles at several internal hedge funds, are subsumed by its eye-popping financial results.That same pursuit of excellence — and money — is woven into the firm's genetic code, outsiders and insiders alike say. Becoming a partner there is a more trying process than at other firms, including 9 to 12 years of evaluations known as 360-degree reviews and competition against an array of the best and the brightest, not just from the Ivy League and top business schools but diamonds in the rough from state universities as well.Unlike its peers, Goldman has not suffered from disruptive events that altered its core culture. Even after going public, it has retained a partnership-like structure, and it has not undergone any transformative mergers like the union of Morgan Stanley and Dean Witter Reynolds. It has never been subsumed by a larger conglomerate, diluting its importance and reducing its top executives to middle managers.Nor has it had a leader like E. Stanley O'Neal, Mr. Thain's predecessor at Merrill, who actively worked to change that firm's "Mother Merrill" image.Goldman Sachs' record is not unblemished. Its role in advising the New York Stock Exchange and Archipelago in their merger drew accusations of a conflict of interest. The firm's own acquisition of Spear, Leeds & Kellogg, a market maker, for $7.4 billion was seen as a costly mistake.Goldman is also known for its insularity. Roy C. Smith, a professor of finance at the Stern School of Business at New York University and a former Goldman executive, noted that relatively few employees defect to rivals. Those who do take positions at other firms, like Mr. Thain and Mr. Rubin, usually stop over at neutral ground first.The firm also has a tradition in which partners are encouraged to leave at a relatively young age after making more than enough money to live well for the rest of their lives. There is another way of looking at it. Many of Goldman's most successful traders and executives are still in their prime when they depart, unquestionably wealthy and undoubtedly self-assured. If they do not reach the top of the firm, one question is left, What's next?"The idea is that there's a certain amount of turnover at the top," Mr. Smith said. "There has always been a ready chain of people behind them."Goldman can afford to lose some of its best people because it fosters a deep managerial bench and gives a heavy emphasis to personal coaching. Those among its ranks anointed as future leaders attend special  seminars. Even those who leave the firm to run less managerial businesses  —  hedge fund executives like Edward S. Lampert, Eric Mindich and Daniel Och  —  were instilled with the notion that success comes from building a team.An article in Business Day on Nov. 6 about the comparison of electricity prices between states where they are set by the market and states where they are set by regulators misstated a measure of electricity for nuclear power plants, which in unregulated states have at times charged for power they had offered to give away during low-demand hours. The price is per megawatt-hour, not kilowatt-hour.  (Go to Article)An article  on Saturday about the results of recent DNA testing on the remains of the Notre Dame football legend George Gipp, which showed he did not father a child with an 18-year-old high school student in 1920, contained several incorrect references.The woman who had claimed to be Gipp's daughter was Bette Weeks — not Easton, which is the surname of her daughter Ellen. Weeks was born five days after Gipp died, not four.The DNA testing that knocked down the paternity claim involved a tissue sample from Weeks, not a blood sample.Gipp's gravesite is near — not in — his hometown, Laurium, Mich.And the headline, which highlighted protests in Gipp's hometown, went beyond the article, which did not address such concerns.  (Go to Article)A headline in some editions yesterday  with a sports article about National Hockey League fines against the Rangers, the Maple Leafs and two players misstated the reason one player, Sean Avery of the Rangers, was fined. It was for his role in a pregame altercation less than a week after being involved in another pregame incident; he was not fined for derogatory comments he was accused of making about another player.  (Go to Article)For the RecordA front-page article on Saturday about President Bush's meetings with families who have lost relatives in the war in Iraq referred incorrectly to a meeting between Cindy Sheehan, an opponent of the war, and the president. The meeting took place in 2004, not 2005, and Ms. Sheehan complained later — not immediately after the meeting — that President Bush had been dismissive of her.  (Go to Article)Because of an editing error, the About New York column on Saturday, about Bernard B. Kerik, the former New York police commissioner, referred incorrectly in some editions to the judge who presided over Mr. Kerik's arraignment on federal tax fraud charges in Federal District Court in White Plains. It was Magistrate Judge George A. Yanthis — not Judge Stephen C. Robinson, the trial judge assigned to the case.   (Go to Article)An article in Business Day yesterday about a plan in Europe to impose quotas on the emission of carbon dioxide by airlines misstated at one point the entity that gave the plan preliminary approval. It was the European Parliament, not the European Union.  (Go to Article)A front-page article on Monday about the current medical thinking on the safety of drug-coated heart stents misstated the relationship between Columbia University and the Cardiovascular Research Foundation, an organization that runs the largest annual meeting for doctors who use stents. The foundation was founded and is led by physicians employed by Columbia University, but it is not part of the university.  (Go to Article)A picture credit on Tuesday with the continuation of the Books of The Times review, about "The Second Civil War" by Ronald Brownstein, using information provided by the publisher, misstated the photographer's given name. She is Eileen McMenamin, not Ellen.  (Go to Article)An article in The Arts on Oct. 31 about a new work by the choreographer John Jasperse, "Misuse liable to prosecution," misstated the daily cost of the war in Iraq, using a figure given by Mr. Jasperse when he recites a list of numbers in the work. It is about $330 million, according to an estimate by the Congressional Research Service, not $720 million. (That figure is an estimate by the American Friends Service Committee, and includes long-term health care for veterans and debt interest, among other factors.)  (Go to Article)An article in The Arts yesterday about Alexandra Wilson, an actress whose Broadway debut has been postponed by the stagehands' strike, misstated the surname of one of her mentors, who is the director of the American Conservatory Theater. She is Melissa Smith, not White.  (Go to Article)Editorials/Op-EdAn editorial on Monday about Kosovo's bid for independence incorrectly described the circumstances behind the NATO intervention in Kosovo in 1999. NATO launched military action to stop Serbia's repression of the ethnically Albanian majority in Kosovo, a province of Serbia. Serbia did not invade Kosovo. (Go to Article)Because of a calculation error by the National Alliance to End Homelessness, an editorial on Monday about the plight of American veterans included an incorrect estimate for the number of veterans who were homeless at some point in 2006. The alliance's revised estimate is 336,627, not 495,400. (Go to Article)The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper's journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com.
