For years, a good way to guarantee  a  laugh was to walk into a room of small business owners and announce, "I'm from the government and I am here to help you."Entrepreneurs were more used to dealing with red tape, endless delays in getting an answer to a question and federal employees who were  frequently less than helpful.But  there are some government agencies worth your time. Consider, for example, these four:The Small Business Administration Answer Desk  provides a toll-free number (1-800-U-ASK-SBA), and an easy to remember e-mail address (answerdesk@sba.gov) to handle questions not only about S.B.A. programs,  but small business problems in general."Free one-on-one counseling is also available locally to help entrepreneurs and potential entrepreneurs in the areas of financing, management technology, government procurement and other business-related areas," the site promises.Entrepreneurship.gov The  Department of Commerce's International Trade Administration and the Kauffman Foundation, whose mission is to "foster a society of economically independent individuals," have teamed up to offer online resources that are intended, as the Web site says, "to help build economies that foster entrepreneurship worldwide."While the site is still evolving, what is already helpful is its resource section that links to more than a dozen organizations — everything from United States Agency for International Development to the Center for International Private Enterprise — that can be of help to entrepreneurs.MyMoney.gov is (hopefully) more for your employees than you. The site says it is aimed at providing  "financial education resources for all Americans," and links to places like the Security and Exchange Commission and other government agencies to provide the basics of savings and investing, budgeting, taxes, financial and retirement planning and the like.IRS.gov Even the most hands-on small business person delegates anything to do with taxes.Still, it is worth glancing at the I.R.S. Web site periodically, for at least these two reasons:¶ It provides a solid primer on just about every possible tax issue that your firm might face.¶ If you go to the section "basic tools for tax professionals" you will find a comprehensive checklist  for the person who handles your taxes. (It lists changes in the tax laws, electronic payment options and the like.) You can use it  to doublecheck your professional's work.TAXING MATTERS For tax questions you would rather not  bother your accountant with — things like how much can you deduct if you use your personal car for business, or whether you have to deduct a new computer system over five years — check out Small Business Taxes FAQ  on Nolo.com, a legal information Web site.The headline of the section lives up to its name. It provides answers in non-legalese.By the way, you can deduct 48.5 cents a mile if you used your car for business in 2007. That figure will climb to 50.5 cents this year.As for the deductibility of the computer system,  the site says you will probably  be able to deduct the cost of the whole thing in one year. (It is an exception to the rule that the cost of capital equipment must be deducted over a number of years.)PAY UP "The I.R.S. estimates that it gets shorted $290 billion by taxpayers each year," Carol Tice writes in Entrepreneur. "Guess who the agency most wants to pay up? Small businesses and the self-employed." . "The I.R.S. attributes nearly 40 percent of its 'tax gap' to underreported taxes owed by these groups."The agency has asked for more money  to strengthen its oversight of  both small businesses and the self-employed.LAST CALL To find out how much you know (or don't) about the Federal Reserve, take any one (or all) of the nine quizzes  on its Web site.Prepare to be dismayed. Here is one of the easier questions:As fiscal agent for the United States Treasury, which of the following does the Fed not do:a) Sell, transfer and redeem government securities.b) Make interest payments on government securities.c) Buy government securities directly from the Treasury.d) Assist the Treasury in other ways with its securities.The answer is "C." (But you knew that.)An 80-year-old former advertising and publishing executive, Thomas S. Monson, was named on Monday to be the 16th president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, one week after the death of the previous president, Gordon B. Hinckley.Mr. Monson's appointment was expected. Leadership changes in the 13-million member Mormon Church are based on seniority in the upper ranks, which makes the transition free of politics, but also guarantees a certain mantle of age. Mr. Hinckley was 84 when he got the job in 1995. He died at age 97.In a news conference at church headquarters in Salt Lake City, Mr. Monson said he had worked with Mr. Hinckley for more than four decades in various assignments, and hinted at no significant departures."He blazed the trail," Mr. Monson said of his predecessor.Mr. Monson's appointment comes at a time of expectation and anxiety in the Mormon world. The number of converts, especially in South America and Africa, rose sharply under Mr. Hinckley as the missionary program — typically young men, working in pairs on two-year assignments — was expanded. But Mr. Hinckley also wrestled with the problem of structure in the far-flung corners of the church, and how to keep converts engaged and active after the missionaries departed.That a Mormon is running for president — former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts is trying to become the Republican nominee — has also put a spotlight on the church and its beliefs and practices. How Mormons fit in the fabric of mainstream America, and how they do not, has become the subject of a political debate that will only intensify if Mr. Romney advances toward the nomination.Mr. Monson, whose elevation to the church presidency also makes him a prophet of God in the eyes of Mormon believers, was born in Salt Lake City, and has lived a life — common in the Mormon church, where there is no professional paid clergy — that has straddled the business and religious worlds.His career, beginning in the late 1940s in advertising and later as sales manager for the Deseret News Press, a commercial printing firm then affiliated with the church, went hand-in-hand with his advancement into bigger and bigger assignments for the church itself.And the church could sometimes ask a lot. In early 1959, for example, he and his young family were "called," as Mormons put it, to be the head of the mission in Canada — and told to be ready to leave in three weeks.In the past, Mormons have often deliberately held themselves to be separate from mainstream, and especially Protestant, Christianity. The church teaches its members that they are the inheritors of the original Christian tradition, which it says was lost before being restored by the Mormon founder, Joseph Smith, in the early 1800s.But, in his news conference, Mr. Monson said that work with other religions on common problems had increased on Mr. Hinckley's watch, and that he intended to maintain and strengthen those connections."We will continue this cooperative effort," he said.Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft and a global philanthropist, called upon fellow business leaders at the World Economic Forum last week to pursue a kinder form of capitalism.But on Friday, the brand of capitalism practiced by his company's chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, came with a decidedly hard edge.Microsoft's $44.6 billion bid for Yahoo, pushed by Mr. Ballmer, was hostile. And during a conference call Friday with analysts and in a subsequent interview, he never once uttered the word "Google," referring to the Internet search giant that has humbled Microsoft only as "the leader" in the online world.Mr. Ballmer, 51, is a famously fierce competitor. To him, failure is never an option. "If we don't get it right at first, we'll just keep coming and coming and coming and coming," he said in an earlier interview.Microsoft's bid for Yahoo is thus a tacit, and difficult, admission that the company did not get its online business right. The bid also represents a sharp departure from Microsoft's well-thumbed playbook of building new businesses on its own.  In the past, when Microsoft moved beyond its stronghold in desktop computer software — and into areas like video games and data-center software — it has done so mainly with in-house investment, patience and tenacity.Microsoft stuck to that formula for years with its Internet search and advertising — without success. It did buy an online ad agency, aQuantive, last May for $6 billion, a sizable move given Microsoft's tradition of making small, niche-filling acquisitions.The losses, however, continue to mount in Microsoft's online business, while Google makes billions in profit.The Google challenge to Microsoft extends beyond online search and advertising. Google is at the forefront of companies offering software as online services, including Web-based alternatives to Microsoft's lucrative desktop products like word processing, spreadsheets and presentation programs.Mr. Gates, Microsoft's largest shareholder, has said that Google is the company that most reminds him of Microsoft in terms of its broad ambitions and demanding corporate culture. Mr. Gates, who is spending more time on philanthropy these days,  blessed the Yahoo bid, but it is Mr. Ballmer's brainchild.And Mr. Ballmer clearly views the Yahoo bid, and the Google threat, in broad terms. A Yahoo deal, he said, would represent "the next major milestone in Microsoft's transformation."Microsoft, too, is moving to offer more software features as Web-based services, though it sees a future that revolves around both personal computer software and online services.Microsoft has been forced to adopt a new strategy for a different kind of threat than it has confronted, and usually dispatched, in the past."This shows just how worried Microsoft is by Google," said David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. "Microsoft has faced competitive threats before, but none with the size, strength, profitability and momentum of Google."In the conference call, Mr. Ballmer conceded that Microsoft needed a big move to try to catch up in the online business. "The market continues to grow, and the leader continues to consolidate position," he said.Microsoft, analysts say, finds itself in a battle where improving its search algorithms and online ad software is not going to be enough. Google has impressive technology, to be sure, but it also enjoys the torrid growth that falls to the leader in highly networked businesses like Internet search and ads.Google's edge in search traffic then attracts more advertisers and Web publishers, so there are more ads in Google's auctions, which makes them more efficient. Each advantage reinforces the other, in what economists call "network effects."One measure of the network advantage, analysts estimate, is that Google collects 40 percent to 100 percent more revenue per search than either Yahoo or Microsoft.Microsoft, of course, is no stranger to the power of network effects. It was the master of that strategy in the personal computer era. Its early lead in PC operating systems, and its efforts to encourage independent software developers to write applications for Windows, paved the way for Microsoft's dominance.More programs ran on Windows than on any other operating system, so more users bought PCs running Windows. Apple, by contrast, never built up the developer network as Microsoft did.In the Internet era, network effects are working against Microsoft as it battles Google.With the Yahoo bid, analysts say, Microsoft is trying to buy a big enough share of the market to be a credible alternative to Google with online advertisers.In the most recent quarter, Microsoft had online revenue of $863 million, compared with $4.8 billion at Google. Yahoo and Microsoft together had more than $2.6 billion in revenue, still trailing well behind Google but in a far stronger competitive position.But the trends in online advertising are working to Google's advantage as it continues to gain share. The more Google's momentum accelerates, the more difficult it will be for Microsoft to catch up, no matter how much it might improve its search technology.While $44.6 billion is a hefty price tag, many analysts say it will be worth it if Microsoft can close the gap with Google. On Wall Street, Microsoft suffers from the perception that it is several steps behind in the march toward the Internet future.Microsoft, analysts note, has grown solidly for years, but investors give it little credit. Its stock price has long been stagnant, despite the company's extremely profitable businesses. The Office division alone had quarterly revenue of $4.8 billion — equal to Google — and an astronomical $3.2 billion in operating profits. The Windows unit is even more profitable."Microsoft needs to show that it is going to make the online business work, and this is about shaking things up that needed shaking up," said Charles di Bona, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.Asked whether the move amounted to an admission of failure of the company's earlier strategy, Mr. Ballmer replied that some people might take that view."But I made the judgment that for the long-term health of this company, and for the long-term interests of our shareholders, that acquiring Yahoo is a good thing," he said.LONDON — BP, the British oil giant, announced on Tuesday that it would cut an additional 5,000 jobs by the middle of next year, part of a plan by the chief executive, Anthony B. Hayward,  to slim management and make the company more efficient.The company also announced a fourth-quarter profit that missed analyst estimates, but said it would raise its dividend 31 percent, citing an "increasingly robust" outlook.Profit in the last three months of 2007 rose 53 percent, to $4.4 billion, from $2.88 billion, in the period a year earlier. Excluding gains or losses from holding inventories or one-time items, profit was $4 billion, which was about 10 percent less than analysts expected.Still, BP said overall oil and gas production was expected to grow this year, justifying the  increase in the dividend, to 13.5 cents a share. "The rise reflected the company's increasingly robust view of the future and greater confidence in its ability to deliver sustained dividend income to shareholders," Mr. Hayward said.Mr. Hayward, who took over from John Browne last year, is trying to improve performance and efficiency by streamlining operations, removing management layers and cutting jobs. Some investors hope Mr. Hayward can help BP leave behind its recent past, which is marred by a fatal explosion at a Texas refinery in 2005 and leaks of crude oil from pipelines in Alaska.Part of that history lingered in BP's fourth-quarter results, which were hurt as its refining and marketing business suffered from poor reliability in some American refineries.BP said most of the additional job cuts would be at major corporate offices, like the London headquarters. The cuts will come on top of 9,500 jobs that are moving off BP's payroll as part of a plan announced in November to sell gasoline stations in the United States. Combined, the job cuts represent about 15 percent of BP's work force.BP's shares edged higher in London, but fell in New York to $63.48, down 1.4 percent.The company said that its refinery in Texas City, Tex., would increase production to almost full capacity by the middle of the year.BP is still waiting for a final ruling on an agreed $50 million settlement deal for the 2005 plant explosion, which killed 15 and injured more than 170. A federal judge on Monday gave the victims and their lawyers  two weeks to file briefs arguing why the settlement was too low.Like other oil companies, BP profited from the rise of oil prices, but needed to spend more to find oil. Like BP, Royal Dutch Shell's fourth-quarter profit missed analyst estimates as lower production and declining refining margins —  the money made from turning crude oil into gasoline or other fuels — hurt earnings.But Mr. Hayward said the company made progress in bringing new oil and gas fields online.  BP, which sees oil at $60 to $90 a barrel over the coming years, said it expected extraction to increase to more than 4 million barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2009 and to about 4.3 million barrels a day in 2012.BP plans to increase spending by as much as $3 billion, to $22 billion this year, to find more oil and said that access to new sources of oil and gas in Oman, Libya and Canada was  expected to improve its  business.In a deal in December that was a turnaround from BP's previous strategy, Mr. Hayward agreed to form a joint venture with Husky Energy to link a BP refinery in Ohio with Husky's Sunrise oil sands project in Alberta.Under Mr. Browne, who considered oil sands as too costly and environmentally challenging, BP was the only  major oil company without holdings in oil sands, the second-largest conventional oil reserves after Saudi Arabia.A MONTH of awards ceremonies began triumphantly last Sunday for Ruby Dee, who won the Screen Actors Guild's  Award for best supporting actress  for her role in the Denzel Washington film "American Gangster."She portrays Mama Lucas, a Southern woman whose son becomes a New York drug kingpin. The film is set in the Harlem of Ms. Dee's childhood, in neighborhoods known for searing memories into the soul. "I do remember the numbers runners, I do remember the poverty and bread lines," the actress said in a recent interview. "Harlem stays with you forever."Ms. Dee, 83, has also been nominated for an NAACP Image Award and an Academy Award for her role in the film. On Monday,  AARP will present Ms. Dee its Movies for Grownups Award for best supporting actress over the age of 50.The price of success in Ms. Dee's case is four separate trips to Los Angeles, not to mention decisions about what to wear to each star-studded event. (The designer Cassandra Bromfield has made "one or two" dresses for her, Ms. Dee said.)  But on  Feb. 7   she will appear much closer to her New Rochelle home in the first program of the Westchester Arts Council's Liberty Readings Series, at the council's headquarters in White Plains.The series was inspired by the recent restoration of the council's 1929 "Freedom Mural,"  which depicts Kensico Lakes and two female figures representing freedom and liberty.  Ms. Dee's subject, "Overcoming Injustice and Oppression," reflects her lifelong involvement in civil rights and social justice issues. Speaking by phone from New Rochelle shortly before leaving for the SAG ceremony, she said she would choose among texts by Walt Whitman, Thomas Paine, W. E. B. Du Bois, Paul Robeson, Langston Hughes, the historian Lerone Bennett and Zora Neale Thurston.Her own perspective was shaped by her decades of work as an activist, including marching with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. during the civil rights movement. "As a nation we are growing some thick skin over some basic tenets that are in danger of being lost to us," she said in the interview. "Our democracy is getting threadbare."Her concerns range from a war being waged without a Congressional declaration to the David and Goliath struggles of independent merchants who are pitted against corporate giants."You're not supposed to go into business with the sole purpose of putting your neighbor out of business," she said. "This is not the United States of Corporate America."Ms. Dee's current projects focus on writing. She is the author of two children's books as well as short stories and a book of poetry. "With Ossie and Ruby: In This Life Together" — her joint autobiography with her late husband, Ossie Davis, who died in February 2005  —  was recorded and won a Grammy Award last year. She is now working on a musical, "Boscoe and the Devil," based on a short story by Arthur P. Davis. She is also involved in  the Ossie Davis Endowment, which is administered by the United Negro College Fund.Although the Oscar nomination is her first, she has won many other honors on her own and jointly with Mr. Davis, including  the National Medal of Arts, the Marian Anderson Award, the   Kennedy Center Honors Award and the SAG Lifetime Achievement Award.Any awards Ms. Dee receives for "American Gangster" are  likely to bring her new recognition from a younger generation of movie goers. Despite her more than 50 films, TV movies and plays spanning the last 61 years, she was described on some Web sites as one of the "lesser-known" SAG nominees.WASHINGTON — He left as America's Mayor. But Rudolph W. Giuliani will return to New York's business and political arenas as a mere mortal, some of his friends and business associates acknowledge.His bid for the Oval Office, perhaps most defined by bruising news coverage of his personal and professional life and a widely panned campaign strategy, have temporarily diminished his marketability, both as a $100,000-an-appearance public speaker and as a purveyor of corporate advice, they concede."The banging around you take in a political campaign can hurt," said Richard J. Sheirer, a senior vice president at Giuliani Partners and a former emergency management official in the Giuliani administration. "In the short term, for the next I-don't-know-how-long, there will be some effect."Mr. Sheirer expects Mr. Giuliani to rebound, though, after dropping out of the Republican presidential race, and to succeed in rebuilding Giuliani Partners, the firm he created immediately after leaving City Hall in 2002.The firm, which provides corporate consulting and security advice, clearly suffered during the campaign, four of its current and former executives said, as Mr. Giuliani's attention was focused elsewhere.Its client list declined, as did revenues, they said. The firm is down to about 50 employees from roughly 60 a few months ago, and several pending departures involve ranking positions, including those of Thomas Von Essen, the former New York City fire commissioner, and Joseph Volpe, the former manager of the Metropolitan Opera, both senior vice presidents at the firm.There remains a question among some executives at the firm, two of them said this week, as to whether Mr. Giuliani will stay in the consulting business and just how involved he will be if he does, as he may decide to focus on his law partnership, Bracewell & Giuliani, or other endeavors, like campaigning for Senator John McCain.If Mr. McCain is elected president, there is little doubt the consulting business would be helped by Mr. Giuliani's potential access to the White House. But it is also possible that Mr. Giuliani would join his administration, perhaps as secretary of homeland security or attorney general."If he doesn't come back, there is nothing there without him," said one Giuliani Partners executive, who asked not to be named as he did not have authorization to speak on behalf of the firm. "People are unsure what will happen next."His ventures certainly proved profitable in the years before his presidential campaign: he earned about $20 million in 2006 and the first few months of 2007, according to his financial-disclosure form. His businesses and investments, at the time, were worth an additional $18 million to $70 million — the disclosure form only provides a range of amounts.Sunny Mindel, a Giuliani Partners spokeswoman, described the recent departures as normal and said that Mr. Giuliani's consulting company would prosper."This firm and Rudy Giuliani will continue to be the success that it was and is," she said.Melanie Hillis, a spokeswoman at Bracewell & Giuliani, said that Mr. Giuliani is also staying with the law firm, which is based in Houston. "He will continue to provide general guidance to clients and the New York office," she said.Despite his poor showing in the campaign, Mr. Giuliani remains attractive to corporate clients looking for access to government officials in New York or Washington, especially because of the advice he can offer as a lawyer and manager, said David Maister, a former Harvard Business School professor who advises and studies consulting firms in the United States."The fact that his personal reputation has taken a hit is really not the issue," Mr. Maister said. "There are still many corporations that will want what he can provide. It is kind of like going down from a gazillionaire to a millionaire. He may be down, but he is not out of the game."Joseph Kornik, editor in chief of Consulting Magazine, said that much would depend on how much energy Mr. Giuliani invests in rebuilding his consulting firm; the issue is not whether he can do so."Consultants have big egos and believe they can do anything," he said.If Mr. McCain is elected president, the ties between the two could boost Mr. Giuliani's appeal to companies seeking to impress the administration, though Mr. Giuliani has insisted that he does not formally lobby.Guy V. Molinari, the former Staten Island borough president and a longtime Giuliani ally, said the former mayor could actually benefit from Mr. McCain's promise to reduce the role of special interests. "Very few people are going to have access to him or his agency heads," he said. "But I dare say Giuliani would be one of the few that would."Less promising, perhaps, several associates predicted, is Mr. Giuliani's earning potential as a public speaker, which produced $11.4 million for 122 speeches he gave worldwide over a 14-month period, by far the bulk of his income. Some of the post-9/11 luster has worn off, and Mr. Giuliani had been speaking at receptions across the country as part of his campaign."His brand has been diminished," said one former deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration, who, like several associates, asked not to be named.George D. Arzt, a political strategist and communications consultant in New York City, said he agreed. "He has gone from America's mayor to just the former mayor of New York," Mr. Arzt said. "There was an aura of invincibility almost for him coming out of 9/11 — and it was extra-marketable."The concern of one senior executive at Giuliani Partners, who spoke on the condition that he not be mentioned by name, is the potential damage to the firm from news coverage about clients, like Purdue Pharma, maker of the widely abused prescription pain killer OxyContin, and Mr. Giuliani's relationship with Bernard B. Kerik, a onetime partner at the firm and the former New York City police commissioner, who is facing federal criminal charges."You just have to look at the firm Web site: integrity is the first word they use to describe the place," said another senior executive at Giuliani Partners.Ms. Mindel dismissed such concerns, saying that quality work Giuliani Partners does for its clients is what matters. "With former Mayor Rudy Giuliani's leadership, Giuliani Partners will continue to provide the high-quality professional consulting services which have made it the success that it is," she said.Mr. Sheirer said any impact from the campaign would be short-lived."In the long term, and not too far out, as people really look back at what he has done, I don't think he will be tarnished at all," Mr. Sheirer said.On the political front, Mr. Giuliani, 63, has not ruled out a future run for office. "I'm not thinking about public office right now," he said after his loss in the Florida primary on Tuesday, adding, "Never say never."Either way, he will be a coveted guest at fund-raising events and rallies, several Republican leaders said, although he might be a slightly less powerful draw, even ardent supporters acknowledged."You are looking at going from a 9 to a 7.5," said Michael McKeon, a former Pataki administration official who worked on the Giuliani presidential campaign.Michael Long, chairman of the New York Conservative Party, said that Mr. Giuliani has now disappointed Republicans in the state twice, dropping out of races before they could vote for him in the 2000 Senate race and the presidential race this year."That is two marks against him in New York," he said.But Mr. Long, who has never been a backer of Mr. Giuliani, said he could do much to restore his standing by campaigning aggressively for Mr. McCain."He is still Rudy Giuliani," Mr. Long said. "He is still seen as a guy who was a very successful mayor."LONDON — BP, the British oil giant, announced on Tuesday that it would cut an additional 5,000 jobs by the middle of next year,   part of  plan by the chief executive, Anthony B. Hayward,  to slim management and make the company  more efficient.The company also announced a fourth-quarter profit that missed analyst estimates, but its shares surged after it said it would raise its dividend 31 percent, citing an "increasingly robust" outlook.Profit in the last three months of 2007 rose 53 percent to $4.4 billion, from $2.88 billion, in the period a year earlier. Excluding gains or losses from holding inventories or one-time items, profit was $4 billion or about 10 percent less than analysts expected.But BP said overall oil and gas production was expected to grow this year, justifying the  increase in the dividend, to 13.5 cents a share. "The rise reflected the company's increasingly robust view of the future and greater confidence in its ability to deliver sustained dividend income to shareholders," Mr. Hayward said.Mr. Hayward, who took over from John Browne last year, is trying to improve performance and efficiency by streamlining operations, removing management layers and cutting jobs. Some investors hope Mr. Hayward can help BP leave behind its recent past, which is marred by a fatal explosion at a Texas refinery in 2005 and leaks of crude oil from pipelines in Alaska.Part of that history  lingered in BP's fourth-quarter results, which were hurt by its refining and marketing business that suffered from reliability in some American refineries.BP said most of the additional job cuts would be at major corporate offices, like the London headquarters. The cuts will come on top of 9,500 jobs that are moving off BP's payroll as part of a plan announced in November to sell gasoline stations in the United States. Combined, the job cuts represent about 15 percent of BP's work force."The key to restoring BP's profitability is getting the U.S. downstream to work properly," said Colin Smith, an analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort in London. "There are clear signs of progress."BP's shares rose 1.4 percent, to £5.49  in London.The company said that its Texas City refinery would increase production to almost full capacity by the middle of the year.BP is still waiting for a final ruling on an agreed $50 million settlement deal for the 2005 plant explosion, which killed 15 and injured more than 170. A federal judge on Monday gave the victims and their lawyers  two weeks to file briefs arguing why the settlements was too low.Like other oil companies, BP profited from the price of oil rising but needed to spend more to find oil. Like BP, Shell's fourth-quarter profit missed analyst estimates  as lower production and declining refining margins —  the money made from turning crude oil into gasoline or other fuels —  hurt earnings.But Mr Hayward said the company made progress in bringing new oil and gas fields online.  BP, which sees oil at  $60 to $90 a barrel over the coming years, said it expected extraction to increase to more than 4 million barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2009 and to about 4.3 million barrels a day in 2012.BP plans to increase spending by as much as $3 billion to $22 billion this year to find more oil and said that access to new sources of oil and gas in Oman, Libya and Canada are expected to improve its  business. In a deal in December that was a turnaround from BP's previous strategy, Mr. Hayward agreed to form a joint venture with Husky Energy to link a BP refinery in Ohio with Husky's Sunrise oil sands project in Alberta.Under Mr. Browne, who considered oil sands as too costly and environmentally challenging, BP was the only  major oil company without holdings in oil sands, the second-largest conventional oil reserves after Saudi Arabia.
