"Other things being equal, a firstborn son may be the worst choice to run your family business," Dan Rottenberg writes in Family Business.McKinsey researchers working with the London School of Economics studied 700 manufacturing companies in France, Germany, Britain and the United States last year and ranked them based on various performance measures like  sales growth and market valuation.The survey found  no difference between a family-run company and the typical one.But, the researchers said, "family companies run by an outside professional C.E.O. performed on average 12 percent better than the average family business." And, they said, "companies run by the eldest son underperformed the average by 10 percent."One possible explanation  offered by the McKinsey consultants is  that if the oldest son  knows his  birth order guarantees that he will be  put  in charge of the family business at some point, he  may not prepare as hard as someone else who has to compete for the job.ARE YOU WORTHY? Let's say  a family member did give  you the top job, is there a way  to know whether you  are ready?Yes, argues Ivan Lansberg, a senior partner at Lansberg, Gersick & Associates, a  research and consulting firm based in New Haven that specializes in family business.In this month's issue of The Harvard Business Review, he writes about whether the new chief executive has taken account of the various constituencies — family members, directors, senior executives, investors, trade unions —  who may not be convinced that the executive has earned the right to hold the top spot. In a sidebar to the main article, he offers a multipart self-diagnostic test the scions can take to determine if they are ready.These are the five questions potential successors should ask themselves, he says (with yes, being the best answer to each):¶Is there a good fit between what I studied and the leadership role?¶Have I worked outside the family business and shown that I can succeed?¶Have I taken on jobs and projects whose results can be objectively measured?¶Am I aware of the deficiencies in my training and what I should do about them?¶Do my behavior and demeanor serve to defuse concerns about nepotism?PARTNERING Finding good people, especially good senior people, is difficult. And wherever there is a problem, someone is bound to start a business to try to solve it. That's where a company called PartnerUp.com comes in.Steve Nielsen said he began the company after he realized that he could have used its services in a previous venture, in 2003. "I just couldn't find the right engineer to partner with" for the company, he says. Months later, at a University of Minnesota event, he says he ran into an engineer who would have been perfect, if only he had had a way to meet him.So, he created a business that  allows people to post opportunities and network and allow companies to search for the people they need. Most of the opportunities advertised are companies looking for a "co-founder, executive, board member, or positions where people will get involved in the company as more than just an employee."OVER THERE  If you are thinking of starting a company in a developing country, the Web site  www.smetoolkit.org can prove helpful.The  site is a part of the small and medium enterprise  department of the World Bank and is aimed at  combining "the market perspective of the International Finance Corporation with the policy expertise of the World Bank to promote local small business growth in developing nations."The articles on accounting and finance, human resources and marketing are equally applicable for  firms in the United States.LAST CALL If you find it hard to get started at the beginning of the workweek, Cristina Tudino, writing in Self magazine, has three suggestions:¶Alter your routine. Going through the motions makes you sluggish, so try something new. "Listen to classical music instead of jazz on your commute. You may think faster on your feet."¶Work hard first. Instead of easing into the day, "pick a project that requires analytical thinking but that will take no more than an hour." It will set a productive tone for the day.¶Have fun — later. By definition, Mondays can be difficult. "Lower your stress level by treating yourself to one small luxury — such as meeting a friend at a favorite lunch spot. It should help you relax, focus and get down to business afterwards."Post-mortems, trying to figure out why a new idea failed, are a common business process. But wouldn't "pre-mortems" make more sense?They would, argues Gary Klein, chief scientist at  Klein Associates, a division of Applied Research Associates, which works with companies to show them how to  conduct  pre-mortems and  "identify risks at the outset.""A pre-mortem in a business setting comes at the beginning of a project rather than the end, so the project can be improved rather than autopsied," Mr. Klein explains in The Harvard Business Review.In the pre-mortem, company officials assume they have just learned that a product or a service they are about to introduce  has "failed spectacularly." They then write down every  plausible reason they can think of to explain the failure. The list is then used to eliminate potential flaws before the new idea is actually introduced into the marketplace.While companies frequently engage in  risk analysis beforehand, employees  are often afraid to speak up, fearing they will be  seen as naysayers or will suffer the political consequences of objecting to an idea that is popular internally.An exercise that assumes the new idea  fails frees people to be more candid, and can, Mr. Klein writes, serve as a check on the "damn-the-torpedoes attitude often assumed by people who are overinvested in a project."BUILDING BETTER TEAMS To get the most out of a diverse team — one that works across boundaries, functions and geographies — executives need to adopt some "counterintuitive management practices," an article in MIT Sloan Management Review argues."Focus on tasks at the early stages, rather than on interpersonal relationships, and then switch to relationship building" later, writes Lynda Gratton, a professor at the London Business School; Andreas Voigt, a research assistant at the school; and Tamara Erickson of the Concours Group, a professional services company.While the natural tendency is to have team members initially spend time getting to know one another, the authors — who studied 55 teams from 15  European and American companies — say that invariably ends up being counterproductive. People tend to align naturally  around common skills or backgrounds.  Getting everyone to work as a group toward a common goal initially will force people to spend more time with those  they would not naturally be drawn to. That will make it easier to form a more cohesive unit where everyone works together and knowledge is shared.Once the team has  had the experience of accomplishing goals together, the authors argue, the leader can then work on having  members forge deeper relationships so that they can work together  more effectively.BAD FOR BONDS When activist investors — people who vigorously lobby for changes in the way a company is run — start buying a stock, their mere presence frequently causes the share price to rise, amid talk of stock buybacks, increased dividends or even a potential sale of the firm.That is good for existing shareholders. But bondholders "almost always experience a decline in creditworthiness and a downgrade to their debt rating or rating outlook," Judy Warner writes in Directorship,  commenting on a study done by Moody's Investors Service.The reason for the decline is not hard to understand. Activist investors frequently call for larger or special dividend payments  or major strategic changes, like  an acquisition that  might be paid for with additional corporate debt.  All of those  tend to hurt a company's creditworthiness.FINAL TAKE Pop quiz. What percentage of video gamers are 50 or older? The answer,  according to AARP magazine,  is 25.PAUL B. BROWN The government-controlled stock exchange in Dubai, the fast-growing Middle East business center, is expected to announce today in Stockholm that it plans to take significant ownership in the Nasdaq stock exchange in New York and the London Stock Exchange, people who have been briefed on the transaction said last night.If the deal is completed, Dubai would become the first Middle East government to own a large stake in an American stock exchange. It also is expected to become the largest single investor in Nasdaq.The deal by the Borse Dubai would give Dubai a stake of 20 percent to 30 percent in Nasdaq, the largest electronic stock market in America, and about 30 percent in the London Stock Exchange, according to people who have been briefed.In exchange, Dubai would hand over to Nasdaq the OMX Group, a stock exchange based in Stockholm that also operates in Helsinki, Copenhagen and several other countries in Scandinavia and the Baltic States.With a 17 percent share, Horizon Asset Management of Seattle is now Nasdaq's largest investor, according to the exchange.Reports of a possible deal brought questions last night from lawmakers in Washington about potential compromises to security in the United States. The concerns were similar to those raised more than a year ago when another Dubai-owned company, DP World, tried to buy a company that managed port operations around the United States, and in 2005, when the Chinese oil company, Cnooc, tried to buy its American rival, Unocal. Both efforts were abandoned under pressure from Congress.Dubai is the commercial and financial center of the United Arab Emirates on the Persian Gulf and has been cited as a transit point for money used to finance terrorism.Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who helped lead the opposition to Dubai's investment in the American ports, said last night that the deal, which would make Dubai a major player in New York finance, would "raise serious questions that have to be answered.""Should any government own any part of a major U.S. stock exchange?" asked Mr. Schumer, who is on the banking and finance committees in the Senate and is the chairman of the joint House and Senate economic committee.A spokeswoman for Nasdaq did not return phone calls seeking comment and executives in Dubai could not be reached.Borse Dubai plans to acquire its stakes in the New York and London exchanges through an elaborate series of steps growing out of its success in outbidding Nasdaq for the OMX Group for about $4 billion.In the deal that is expected to be announced today, Borse Dubai will complete the purchase of the OMX Group and then hand it over to Nasdaq in exchange for at least a 19 percent share in the New York exchange and Nasdaq's stake of about 30 percent in the London Stock Exchange, which is valued at about $1.8 billion.Nasdaq has been struggling to get a foothold in Europe and watched as a rival, the NYSE Group, merged with Euronext to form a global exchange company. Stock markets around the world are combining or buying stakes in each other to meet clients' demands to trade shares of companies anywhere, at a faster pace, across different asset classes and for less money. Combinations also help them save costs in an industry where the largest expense is developing the technology to run trading platforms.But Nasdaq's efforts to expand have been rebuffed. It bought a 30 percent share in the London Stock Exchange, but its hostile bids to take over the entire London operation were rejected.Then in May, Nasdaq announced that it had reached agreement to buy the OMX Group for $3.7 billion. But in August, Borse Dubai, the parent company of the Dubai International Financial Exchange, which includes the former Dubai Financial Markets, came in with a higher bid.Beach books (the kind set there, not those designed to be read there) often falter for want of drama. This shouldn't be too surprising: vacation places at the shore are often chosen for their lack of stimulation. Writers are merely being faithful to the milieu when they generate characters drunk on sunshine in plots that move to the lulling rhythms of days and nights by the ocean.Dennis McFarland is too high-minded a novelist to rely on a grisly murder, drowning, sex scandal, shark attack, weather emergency or cancer diagnosis to juice up his story of three siblings gathered at the family estate on the Gulf Coast. The best he can do here in the way of a gimmicky threat is a stinging jellyfish. "Howard's End" seems to be a landlocked model for "Letter From Point Clear," with the waterfront house and grounds at this Alabama retreat functioning as a character in its own right and the question "To whom does this idyllic spot rightfully belong?" left unanswered until the end.The Owens were raised to be the sort of WASPs who talk about property, not money, although they have plenty of it — too much, we are led to think. Their recently deceased, long-widowed father, Roy, was "drunken, narcissistic and not especially interested in his children." The story begins when Roy's son and older daughter — Morris, an English professor, and Ellen, a minor poet — make the southward trip home from Cape Cod after receiving a letter from their troubled sister, Bonnie, who has been living at Point Clear, overseeing their father's last days after failing to make it as an actress in New York. Ellen and Morris suspect she has added to her already sterling résumé of disastrous choices by impulsively marrying a handsome young evangelical minister, aptly named Pastor, who may be after the family fortune. (To consecrate their union, she gives him a new Jeep; his gift to her is a Bible.)Soon enough, the outspokenly gay Morris will be pitted against the fundamentally anti-gay Southern preacher. As leader of the prayer team at the Church of the Blessed Hunger, Pastor believes he cannot allow his brother-in-law to continue a life of sin, even though his own father tells him to keep his mouth shut. The pregnant Bonnie is caught between her old and new families.I kept hoping McFarland would play this as a Shavian comedy, exposing hardened and faulty assumptions on the parts of all concerned. Instead, he panders to his liberal readers, who never have to wonder which side deserves to triumph. The scenes for these arguments are as predictable — a dinner party with guests is the occasion for a major blowup — as the positions expressed. Even the most heated conversations, tuned to the plain timbres of actual speech but infected with the language of therapy, end up sounding painfully flat. "Morris didn't ask for your prayers," Bonnie tells Pastor. "He didn't ask for them and they're based on a false premise. You're imposing your particular view on him and praying about something that's really none of your business."Elsewhere, passages of exposition or internal monologuing can be so clotted they read like Gertrude Stein or Ivy Compton-Burnett without the craziness or the bite: "At first, Morris's proposal to bring Willie down for the weekend had thrown her. How could she say no to seeing Willie when she missed him so? How could she have Willie down and bar Dan, when she knew Dan missed him just as much? Even when Morris and Richard were planning to come without Willie, she'd worried that it would look too much like a family gathering that pointedly excluded Dan."Novels about the tensions of family relationships tend to unfold at a slow tempo, but when this is compounded by a beach setting during a Southern summer the effect can be stifling. Not enough is at stake between the Owen siblings for the payoff to have startling consequences. What's more, McFarland too often opts for mood over action. Emotional cadences are signaled by walks on the sand, the watching of sunsets, lightning storms at night, the death of a beloved old dog and many bouts of weeping.In early novels like "The Music Room" and "School for the Blind" (where the ancestral home was in Florida), McFarland was able to draw realistic figures with odd problems. His flowing sentences took their time reaching a conclusion but still held their shape and took care of business along the way. Not here, where the Southern heat seems to have wilted the muscle tone of his prose and his characters. Let's hope this novel is an anomaly.MOST people who knew Gabriel Hammond at Johns Hopkins in the late 1990s could have predicted he would rise quickly on Wall Street. As a freshman, he traded stocks from his dorm room, making a $1,000 bet on Caterpillar. Soon after, he abandoned his childhood dream of becoming a lawyer and, upon graduation, joined Goldman Sachs as a stock analyst.Three years into his new job, Mr. Hammond noticed something. Very few of his young co-workers were taking a hiatus from Wall Street to go to business school, long considered an essential rung on the way to the top of the corporate ladder.So he, too, decided to forgo an M.B.A.. Instead, he raised $5 million and started his own hedge fund, Alerian Capital Management, in 2004. The fund now manages $300 million out of offices in New York and Dallas, and Mr. Hammond, 28, enjoys seven-figure payouts.Like other young people on the fast track, Mr. Hammond has run the numbers and figures that an M.B.A. is a waste of money and time — time that could be spent making money. "There's no way that I would consider it," he says.As more Americans have become abundantly wealthy, young people are recalculating old assumptions about success. The flood of money into private equity and hedge funds over the last decade has made billionaires out of people like Kenneth Griffin, 38, chief executive of the Citadel Investment Group, and Eddie Lampert, 45, the hedge fund king who bought Sears and Kmart. These men are icons for the fast buck set — particularly the mathematically gifted cohort of rising stars known as "quants." Many college graduates who are bright enough to be top computer scientists or medical researchers are becoming traders instead, and they measure their status in dollars instead of titles.Many of the brightest don't covet a corner office at Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley. Instead, they're happy to work at a little-known hedge fund run out of a two-room office in Greenwich, Conn., as long as they get a fat payday. The competition from alternative investment firms — private equity and hedge funds in particular — is driving up salaries of entry-level analysts at much larger banks. And top performers at the banks make so much money today that they don't want to take two years off for business school, even if it's a prestigious institution like the Wharton School or Harvard.The new ranks of traders and high-octane number crunchers on Wall Street are also a breed apart from celebrated long-term investors like Warren E. Buffett and investment banking gurus like Felix G. Rohatyn. What sets the new crowd apart is the need for speed and a thirst for instant riches."With the growth of hedge funds, you're getting a lot of really smart people who are getting paid a lot very young," says Arjuna Rajasingham, 29, an analyst and a trader at a hedge fund in London. "I know it's a bit of a short-term view, but it's hard to walk away from something that's going really well."The shift has not gone unnoticed by administrators at some business schools. Richard Schmalensee, who was dean of the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management until June, chalked it up to the changing nature of money-making. In many banks and investment boutiques, traders with math and science backgrounds now contribute more to the bottom line than the white-shoed investment bankers who long presided over Wall Street. And traders tend to be less likely to go to business school."I don't think you will see M.B.A.'s less represented in executive suites, but you may see M.B.A.'s less represented in the lists of the world's richest people," Professor Schmalensee says.BUSINESS school has not fallen out of favor among the student population at large. The number of students who earned M.B.A.'s in 2005 was about 142,600, nearly twice the level in 1991. But as M.B.A.'s become more common, the degree seems to carry less prestige with people who land top-paying jobs in finance soon after college.And recent upheavals in the financial markets don't seem to be changing the thinking of these younger high-fliers and their employers.Hedge fund managers are unlikely to punish their younger workers for any dip in returns this year, says Adam Zoia, managing partner at Glocap, a headhunter in New York. Management fees charged by funds — typically 2 percent — come in regardless of return levels and can more than cover large salaries for young employees at many funds."Most managers say, 'If I don't pony up a decent bonus, then I'm going to lose people,' " Mr. Zoia says. "It'd be short-sighted of them not to retain their good people."At funds that manage $1 billion to $3 billion, people with just a few years of finance experience will make $337,000 this year, Mr. Zoia says, and those with five to nine years of experience will average $830,000, up 6 percent from last year. These estimates include analysts and researchers but not portfolio traders, who can make much more because they sometimes share in profits.Dozens of young people (mostly male) who want to be, or already are, successful traders said in interviews that they relished the challenge of their jobs, in addition to the lofty paychecks.But they also spoke as if a money-clock were ticking: many said they wanted to make as much money as fast as they could so that they could live in style later in life while doing less lucrative things like running a charity, working for the government, spending time with their families, or inventing new technologies. Some, of course, plan to stay in finance their entire careers, and they, too, are very focused on earning fat bonuses fast."The sales pitch of these private equity funds or these hedge funds is, 'Come here, and you'll make a million bucks in two years,' " says Gregg R. Lemkau, 38, managing director and chief operating officer of investment banking at Goldman Sachs, who passed up business school to stay at Goldman in the early 1990s when that choice was more rare.And because today there are more self-made millionaires — and billionaires — than ever before, 20-something traders seem bolder in their monetary ambitions. Business school often does not fit into these plans."If you want to make the most money in the shortest period of time, you can't be away from work for two years," says Vitaly Dukhon, 30, who recently left the Fortress Investment Group in New York to join another hedge fund.While in college at Harvard, Mr. Dukhon thought he would go to business school in his mid-20s, but in his first job on the Treasury desk at Deutsche Bank, he realized that the smartest people just a few years his senior were staying put. "I saw that people that had been working for 20 years did have M.B.A.'s, but people five to six years older than me were not going," he says. "Going to business school is a way for people to try to open the door, to try to get into a company or hedge fund. But if you're already there, it doesn't make sense to go."Mr. Hammond of Alerian noticed the same trend while he was an analyst at Goldman Sachs. His co-workers who went to business school either wanted to change careers, or they were not doing well in their current jobs, he says.Part of the shift comes as investment banks like Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse have changed their tune on business school. Instead of pushing all their young employees into M.B.A. programs, banks are telling the best ones to stay put."We are the perfect training ground for people who want to have careers in finance," says Caitlin McLaughlin, director of campus recruiting for Citi, the former Citigroup. Just 15 years ago, Ms. McLaughlin estimates, 85 to 90 percent of Citi's analyst classes ended up attending business school. Now, she thinks that figure is closer to 50 percent.Samir Ahmad, 25, has worked at Citi since college. This summer, he was promoted to associate, an M.B.A.-level position, in the fixed-income, currencies and commodities division. Despite advice from his older brother that he should attend business school, Mr. Ahmad says he cannot see what he would gain to justify the time. "If I were to spend two years at business school, I'd get an M.B.A. degree, but I think learning a different product or a different group here at Citi would be more valuable," he says.To be sure, business school can still be a valuable investment, especially for those who want to change careers. Most schools teach a well-rounded curriculum that exposes students to the full picture of the way the business world works. They are great places to make friends and connections that can help throughout a career. And the top business schools serve as a useful filtering system, placing a seal of approval on graduates that can help them find jobs."Most banking — and that includes private equity — is about deals and about relationships," says Timothy Butler, director of M.B.A. career development programs at Harvard Business School. "That will always be M.B.A. territory."YET even some students at top schools like Harvard say the decision to go is tougher now than it likely was two decades ago. "We all struggled with it," says Katie Shaw, 28, who is in her second year of business school there. "It's not only, 'Where do I go to business school?' It's also, 'Do I go?' "Ms. Shaw worked in private equity before business school and plans to return to a position in finance. In private equity, she says, an M.B.A. is valued because buying and selling companies involves relationships and company analysis skills. Still, most private equity firms used to require their young hires to leave to go to business school, and some are now letting talented ones keep working instead.Headhunters for hedge funds and private equity firms say hedge funds, in particular, do not value an M.B.A. "I have some clients that will legitimately say, 'An M.B.A. means absolutely nothing to us,' " says Tim Zack, principal of In-Site Search, a headhunting firm in Westport, Conn., that is a division of Chaves and Associates.Mr. Hammond of the Alerian hedge fund recently hired someone from Carnegie Mellon's business school because of that person's engineering talent, not the skills he learned in business school. While Mr. Hammond says he understands why his new employee went to business school to move into finance, he would look less favorably on someone in an M.B.A. program who had left finance to go to business school.If he were looking at someone who went to Harvard Business School after the two-year analyst program at Goldman, "I'd be suspicious," he says. "I'd be saying, 'What was it you were doing wrong that you couldn't get a promotion at Goldman or did not pursue an opportunity with a private equity or hedge fund?' "When young people on Wall Street consider the benefits of business school, Mr. Hammond says, the upside no longer outweighs lost salaries and bonuses they would have earned. He calculates the cost of going to a two-year business school to be at least half a million dollars for the average bank employee — $250,000 or more each year in lost salary, plus $50,000 a year in tuition and living expenses. For hedge fund employees, Mr. Hammond says, the number would be considerably higher.The result, headhunters say, is that many of the best people in finance are no longer entering the M.B.A. pipeline. "If someone is doing well at a hedge fund, they absolutely do not encourage their employees to go off to business school," says Mr. Zoia of Glocap.Some young people are pursuing alternatives that can be completed without leaving their jobs. Some take the chartered financial analyst tests or study part-time at night at schools like N.Y.U. that offer master's degrees in subjects like financial engineering."There's a real shift in assumptions as to what is going to make you a better applicant or a prospect for a job," says Art Hogan, chief market analyst for Jefferies & Company, noting that he had seen an increased interest in young people pursuing a designation as a chartered financial analyst at night rather than leaving their jobs for an M.B.A.At the banks, there has been a push in recent years to keep top performers around after their time as analysts, the most junior position, ends. "Strong performers we want to keep at the firm for as long as possible," says Julie Kalish, 28, head of United States recruiting for Credit Suisse. "The amount of analysts that we try to keep for the associate promotion process has grown over recent years."Admissions officers at top business schools say finance firms always try to hold onto their best employees when the economy is good. They say interest from applicants working in finance is not declining and their graduates still land a large number of top finance jobs. What administrators at business schools do not know — largely because their admissions and career placement offices are separate — is whether their students with a finance background are staying in that industry.Recruiters at banks say a large number of the students that they are hiring from business schools are from an international background or are changing careers. These students are valuable, they say, but they come in with a different background from someone who has been in finance since age 22.Jeffrey Talpins, chief investment officer at Element Capital Management, a small fixed-income hedge fund in New York, says he likes to hire people fresh out of school so he can teach them himself. Mr. Talpins attended Yale as an undergraduate but did not go to business school. If a young employee asked his advice on business school, he says, he would tell them not to go if they wanted to stay in finance. "I'd say, 'You already have a great platform for a job in finance,' " he says. "If you're a superstar, and you're very good, you'll grow very rapidly in this field."Eventually, these young people may want to raise money and start their own fund, suggests Thomas Caleel, director of admissions at Wharton, and that's where an M.B.A. and the connections that come with it could help. "If you are trying to raise money for a hedge fund, you will need that network," he says.Mr. Talpins of Element said he had no trouble raising money for his hedge fund without an M.B.A. After all, he had a track record from Citi and Goldman Sachs to show to potential investors. In his corner of the world, where math equations are likely to be scrawled on white boards around the office and young people hold the purse strings to millions of dollars in investor money, it seems there is no point in going to business school just to punch a ticket.In 2005, Trader Monthly named Mr. Talpins one of the top 30 traders under 30. "Youth is not wasted on this crop, any of whom could be a billionaire by 40," the magazine said. "Or, then again, they could be belly up and bust."Mr. Hammond of Alerian, who was featured on the magazine's list last year, said he has seen people go to hedge funds and get fired in six months "because they couldn't hack it."But he says the risk is worth it."If you look at the really successful hedge fund managers — the Eddie Lamperts," he says, "they're all in their 40s now. They were probably making only low single-digit millions in their 20s."That's why you do this," he continues. "That's why it's so attractive, because the payoff of being the winner, the next Eddie Lampert, is so high."WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 — Michael B. Mukasey, President Bush's choice for attorney general, received a warm reception on Tuesday on Capitol Hill. He was reported to have promised new rules at the Justice Department to block political interference in department work and in hiring prosecutors.Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said Mr. Mukasey, a retired federal judge, promised in a meeting with him on Tuesday that the rules would bar virtually all political appointees, including United States attorneys, from discussing specific cases with lawmakers.The rules would be intended to prevent the contacts that were perceived to be involved last year in the dismissals of several United States attorneys. The resulting furor focused intense scrutiny on Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales."Mukasey said he wanted to depoliticize the department," Mr. Schumer said in an interview. "He said he would promulgate a rule that if any political official called about a specific case in the Justice Department, they would have to refer it to one or two high-up officials in Washington. Anybody who would not follow the rule would be fired."Mr. Schumer, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, its chairman, said Mr. Mukasey impressed them in their introductory meetings on Tuesday. "I see Judge Mukasey's nomination as another chance to clear the decks of some important unfinished business that goes to the heart of accountability in government," Mr. Leahy said.The committee's ranking Republican, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, called Mr. Mukasey "a lawyer's lawyer" who could restore "the integrity that the department needs so badly."The White House seeks early confirmation hearings, possibly this month. Mr. Leahy has insisted that the White House act first on his panel's request for files on  eavesdropping without warrants and interrogation policies for terror suspects. He said conversations with the White House "had been encouraging."They were together early in their professional lives, as federal prosecutors working on corruption cases and later when they were engaged in  private practice  at the same firm, where they shared a fondness for practical jokes.Then the careers of the two lawyers took off, and after one of them, Rudolph W. Giuliani, was elected the 107th mayor of New York, he went to the apartment of the other, Michael B. Mukasey, by then a federal judge, for a private  swearing-in ceremony on New Year's Eve."Your achievements have been such that neither I nor anyone else I know could match them," Mr. Mukasey wrote in a letter to Mr. Giuliani a few days after the new mayor's 1994 inauguration. Speaking as well for his wife, and referring to Mr. Giuliani's wife at the time, Donna Hanover,  Mr. Mukasey added, "Please also know that my admiration and love, and Susan's, for both of you and your family is without limit."Now the two friends are seeking even greater heights: President Bush has chosen Mr. Mukasey to be the next attorney general, and Mr. Giuliani is running to succeed Mr. Bush.If Mr. Mukasey is confirmed, he stands to lead the Justice Department at a time when prosecutors in the Southern District of New York are investigating a case with sensitive political implications for Mr. Giuliani. At issue is whether to seek an indictment of Mr. Giuliani's former police commissioner and business partner, Bernard B. Kerik.Though the authorities  were initially reviewing only the possibility of tax evasion, and of offenses stemming from statements Mr. Kerik made to background investigators when Mr. Bush chose him to be  secretary of homeland security, they have since cast a much wider net, examining a broader range of possible crimes, people briefed on the matter have said.The ties between Mr. Mukasey and Mr. Giuliani continue to run deep. Before Mr. Mukasey's selection to be attorney general, he and his family donated at least $10,000 to Mr. Giuliani's presidential campaign. And he and his son Marc, who works for the law firm of Bracewell & Giuliani, were named this summer to the Giuliani campaign's judicial advisory committee.Tony Fratto, deputy White House press secretary, said the White House counsel, Fred F. Fielding, called Mr. Giuliani on Sunday — two days after Mr. Mukasey had been offered the post of attorney general,  and the day before Mr. Bush made the announcement — to inform him of the decision. Mr. Giuliani called Mr. Mukasey to congratulate him that day, a campaign aide said.When Mr. Mukasey was a federal district judge in Manhattan, his close ties to Mr. Giuliani led him to recuse himself at times from some of the many cases involving Giuliani administration policies that landed in the courts, as the city pursued approaches that occasionally alarmed civil libertarians.Christopher Dunn, associate legal director for the New York Civil Liberties Union, recalled appearing before Judge Mukasey when his group sued the city over a new policy denying sound permits for rallies in Times Square, a ban the civil liberties union  said was drafted by Mr. Giuliani to prevent a raucous group known as the Black Israelites from preaching there.Mr. Dunn said he had asked Judge Mukasey to recuse himself because of his relationship with the mayor, who was a defendant in the suit. "Mukasey's response was, 'Do you want to know the last time I had dinner with him?' " he recalled. But he added that Mr. Mukasey had in fact recused himself, and the city later withdrew its policy.Judge Mukasey did not always do so, though. In 2000, he upheld a Giuliani administration policy allowing the police to seize the cars of people charged with drunken driving, dismissing a suit brought by the Legal Aid Society. The decision was appealed, and in 2002, after Mr. Giuliani left office, a federal appeals court ruled that the policy had unlawfully denied the owners of the cars an opportunity to challenge the seizures promptly. Judge Mukasey later ordered the city to adopt a hearing process for impounded cars.The nomination of Mr. Mukasey has cast a spotlight on the pre-mayoral career that Mr. Giuliani built at  the Justice Department in both Washington and New York, a career that left him with a number of important allies  proving useful as he runs for president.He and Mr. Mukasey both have reputations for taking a tough line on terrorism, sharing a broad view of the government's right  to conduct surveillance. And at times, they sound very similar in their public pronouncements about law enforcement powers.As mayor, Mr. Giuliani repeatedly called for police officers accused of wrongdoing to be given "the benefit of the doubt." In 2004, Judge Mukasey wrote a defense of the USA Patriot Act in The Wall Street Journal that concluded that the government was entitled, "at least in the first instance, to receive from its citizens the benefit of the doubt."Their ties filtered down to their personal lives as they climbed the heights in their respective careers. As mayor, Mr. Giuliani paid a visit in 1998 to the Ramaz School, a yeshiva on the Upper East Side where Mr. Mukasey's wife was headmistress and from which Mr. Mukasey graduated in 1959. The mayor, a City Hall news release reported, was serenaded by children  singing "New York, New York" and greeted with a five-tiered cake in honor of the centennial of the consolidation of the city's five boroughs.The two men   loved  pranks. When Mr. Giuliani tried to join Mr. Mukasey's firm, Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler, in the late 1970s, Mr. Mukasey faxed him a phony letter that appeared to be to one of the senior partners, listing the reasons Mr. Giuliani was unprepared for the job, according to an interview that one  partner, Harold R. Tyler Jr., gave to Newsday in 1995. The letter spurred Mr. Giuliani to protest to Mr. Tyler, a mentor of his,  about his qualifications and helped persuade him to take the job.To the Editor:"A New Push to Regulate Power Costs" (Business Day, Sept. 4) was right on target, and reminds us that regulated, full-service utilities continue to provide reliable and affordable electricity to customers.When deregulated markets were formed, states broke utilities into separate generation and delivery companies, thereby losing efficiencies coming from integrated operations.Generators in deregulated markets rely heavily on natural gas because such plants can be built faster and companies can generate profits quicker.Regulated full-service utilities that generate, transmit and distribute electricity under the oversight of state and federal regulators better diversify their fuel sources so that sharp increases in the cost of any single source of fuel will not have the same impact on customers that occurs with markets that are overreliant on one fuel.Consequently, regulated utilities can better manage their costs, and thereby provide more stable prices to all of their customers.John B. BreauxChairman, Community Power AllianceWashington, Sept. 7, 2007Alexis Frances Breier Thoman, a daughter of Wenke Thoman Sterns of New York and G. Richard Thoman of Greenwich, Conn., and McAndrew Adam Rudisill, a son of Sheila Rudisill and William A. Rudisill of Charlotte, N.C., were married yesterday at First Congregational Church in Manchester, Vt. The Rev. Dr. Steven E. Berry, a United Church of Christ minister, performed the ceremony.Mrs. Rudisill, 27, is the manager of the marketing department for the Extell Development Company, a real estate developer in New York. She graduated from Princeton.Her father is the managing partner of Corporate Perspectives, an investment company in New York, and a visiting professor of international business at Columbia and Tufts. He is a former chief executive of Xerox, leaving in 2000, and a former chief financial officer of I.B.M. Her mother is the managing director of Industrial Mineral Holdings, a holding company in New York with interests in industrial insulation and real estate development. The bride is a stepdaughter of Lynn B. Thoman and William S. Sterns III.Mr. Rudisill, 28, is the founder and the managing partner of Pelagic Capital Advisors, a New York investment firm. He graduated cum laude from Middlebury College.His father is the chairman and an owner of Jake Rudisill Associates in Charlotte, a manufacturers' representative for industrial automation and electric utility equipment. He was the founder and the president of Motionex, an industrial automation distribution company in Charlotte.CALVERTONFOR the last seven months, Town of Riverhead officials have been in negotiations with two developers who have each bid $125 million to buy more than a square mile of former Navy property to build what they say would be a major regional resort and recreation destination.By tomorrow, said one of the two, a joint venture of the Long Island developer RexCorp and the Long Island Destination Group, local officials need to choose a developer for the 755-acre property. If not, the group said, it will walk away."The town needs to decide," said Scott H. Rechler, chairman of RexCorp, which calls its proposed project Epcal Center. "We have too many resources allocated here that we need to divert if we are not going to go forward."At stake is the future of a big slice of 2,900 acres that the federal government signed over to the town in 1998.Both developers propose what they say would eventually be a $1 billion project that would transform the property, which is zoned for recreation; attract millions of visitors; produce tens of millions in annual tax revenue; and create hundreds of  jobs. The developers say the property's size and location make it a one-of-a-kind site in the metropolitan area.One developer, Riverhead Resorts, would raise a mountain and create a huge artificial lake. The other, the Epcal Center group, would build horse and auto racing complexes. Both projects would include a convention center; hotel rooms; retail businesses; sports and recreation amenities; and shared-ownership vacation homes.Riverhead is a semirural agricultural town of 33,000, a poor cousin to the Hamptons but with a good location at the end of the Long Island Expressway and the junction of the eastern forks.After years of dickering over what to do with the land, local officials have approved business and light industrial uses on other parts of Epcal, which is short for Enterprise Park at Calverton. Now they may be moving to decide immediately which of the two projects to back for the 755-acre recreational zone.A decision by the five-member Town Board is possible by the RexCorp deadline, or a majority of the board could decide to wait for a  higher offer and risk having RexCorp drop out."I'm not sure we should do anything right now," said Councilwoman Barbara Blass, who first wants to see how light industry and business fare at other parts of Epcal.The town supervisor, Phil  Cardinale, said money would count in the bidding, which weeks ago had topped out at $100 million, before hitting $125 million. "We were hoping to inspire a bidding war, and we finally did," he said.With a megaproject to remake the town's downtown mired in complications, and the collapse of a $40 million plan to reclaim land at the old landfill,  officials are anxious to get it right this time.Riverhead Resorts says it would build a 350-foot-high  indoor ski  mountain that would be the highest structure on Long Island and the largest snow-sport facility of its kind in the country. The sloping exterior would be covered in tons of earth — recycled from the site — and planted with trees and foliage.The developer said it would also excavate a 90-acre lined lake, stock it with fish and surround it with eight themed subresorts. The lake would cover one of two runways where Grumman, now Northrop Grumman, tested F-14 jets it built there  for the Navy  from the 1970s to 1992.RexCorp's Epcal Center would include a sprawling equestrian complex, a 10,000-seat auto racetrack and a looping motorway to attract automobile enthusiasts.But the Greater Calverton Civic Association opposes the racetrack, downsized in the latest plan from 80,000 seats, but still feared as a source of noise. "We are pretty much against any aggressive use of the property," said Rex Farr, the association's president.Mr. Rechler, of RexCorp, said the  track would be engineered to limit noise.The Epcal Center group is stressing its Long Island roots and saying that its proposal is more compatible with business and light-industrial uses planned elsewhere on the property. RexCorp, based in Uniondale, is also in a joint venture with Charles B. Wang, the Computer Associates founder, to build a $2 billion suburban center at and around the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale.The Long Island Destination Group includes members of the Petrocelli family, builders of Atlantis Marine World on Riverhead's Main Street.Mitchell H. Pally of Weber Law Group, a spokesman for Riverhead Resorts, said the developer was standing by its $125 million offer for the Calverton land but was willing to wait for the town's decision. "We are not in the business of setting artificial deadlines for elected officials," he said.Riverhead Resorts' principals include Baldragon Homes, a Scottish home-building company; Bayrock Group, an international real estate investment and development company; LEDO International, a themed resort planner and manager; and HOK, an architecture, urban design and planning company.Riverhead Resorts' proposed indoor ski park and mountain would far exceed town height limits and would need a zoning variance. Epcal Center officials contend that approval of the mountain is hardly guaranteed and that its project is less dense and more in keeping with rural Riverhead.Councilman Ed Densieski, who backs Epcal Center, said of the mountain,  "I can't see that happening."Mr. Farr, of the civic association, said that the town should not be rushed. "We are better off waiting," he said.
