IT takes both a special mind-set and certain skills to build a successful company.But left unchecked, the very things that helped make your enterprise a winner can depress your employees and actually harm your business.That is the message from a Fortune Small Business interview with Marshall Goldsmith, author of one of this year's best business books, "What Got You Here Won't Get You There: How Successful People Become Even More Successful" (Hyperion $23.95).Here are three things you could be doing wrong, according to Mr. Goldsmith, and what you can do about them:Being too competitive. Your desire to prove yourself right can come at your employees' expense, and as a result, good people feel humiliated and eventually leave."Adding too much value." When someone comes to you with a solid initiative, instead of saying "that's great," you tend to say, "that is a great idea, but. ..." The problem with that, Mr. Goldsmith says, is that your contribution could make the idea 5 percent better, but decrease the employee's enthusiasm by 50 percent, "because now it is your idea," not hers, and she may not give its execution her all. If you feel compelled to add value, do it in a way that stokes the employee's enthusiasm.Losing perspective. "Entrepreneurs kill themselves, literally," Mr. Goldsmith says. "They work themselves to death, they don't get physical exams, their health goes straight to hell. For what? You have to find balance."FAILURE 101 The list of large  once high-flying companies that have stumbled badly is virtually endless.The question, of course, is what happened and why.Jagdish N. Sheth, a marketing professor at Emory University's business school, offers some explanations in "The Self-Destructive Habits of Good Companies ... and How to Break Them" (Wharton School Publishing, $24.99),  now reaching bookstores.While his focus is on big companies, Mr. Sheth's explanations serve as a cautionary list for small companies as well. His reasons can be boiled to what can be described only as the seven deadly sins of business:Arrogance; complacency; competency dependency (you have gotten so good at doing one thing — D.E.C. making minicomputers — it is hard for you to move away from your core competency, when something like the PC comes along); competitive myopia (defining your competition too narrowly: in its heyday G.M. worried about Ford and Chrysler and not imports); culture conflicts and turf wars; denial (believing a new technology or competitor won't be a threat) and volume obsession (which can destroy your margins; Motorola and its Razr spring to mind).DEAR DIARY To blog or not to blog about your business is not a question Hamlet grappled with, but it could be one you have been thinking about.And your initial instinct might be not to do it, figuring that with 1.6 million blog updates going online every day, according to Technorati, there is no way a message promoting your firm is going to break through.Well, think again, argues Peter Alexander, a columnist for Entrepreneur.com who is also vice president of worldwide commercial marketing at Cisco Systems."In a recent survey of business technology marketing executives by the research firm MarketingSherpa, blogs were voted the No. 4 tool for generating sales leads," he writes. He offers  a primer on the best way to blog.Not surprisingly, you can find his article and suggestions by going to Entrepreneur.com's blog section.LAST CALL "Get your cellphone to call you at a predetermined time to impress or escape someone," All You magazine suggests. "At popularitydialer.com you can have your phone engage you in fake conversation."If there is a Web site, blog, seminar or book you think would be helpful to your fellow readers, please send e-mail to Paul B. Brown at paulbbrown@nytimes.comDIA BORROWS SPACEAt Hispanic SocietyAs the Dia Art Foundation continues to look for a home in New York City, it has entered into a three-year collaboration with the Hispanic Society of America. Beginning this fall Dia will commission a series of projects by contemporary artists to be installed in the society's Beaux-Arts home  at Audubon Terrace on Broadway at 155th Street in Washington Heights."This is an interim program only," said Jeffrey Weiss, Dia's new director. "It complements our search for a new space." (In 2004 Dia moved out of its two gallery spaces on West 22nd Street in Chelsea, saying neither was suited for its growing number of visitors.)In developing a series of programs, Lynne Cooke, Dia's curator, said she planned to work with artists who would take into account the society's holdings of Spanish and Latin American art. The first project will be conceived by the Belgian artist Francis Alÿs, who lives and works in Mexico City. Mr. Alÿs is known for site-specific projects like "Where Faith Can Move Mountains," a 2002 installation created for the third Ibero-American Biennale that involved 500 volunteers who were given shovels and asked to form a single line at the foot of a giant sand dune in Ventanilla, an area outside Lima, Peru. Together they moved a 1,600-foot-long sand dune about four inches from its original position. "Modern Procession," a three-hour march with scattered rose petals, bubbles and music by a Peruvian band, Banda de Santa Cecilia,  marked the Museum of Modern Art's temporary move to Long Island City, Queens, in 2002.Like most Dia exhibitions this will be a long-term show, on view for about a year.Mitchell A. Codding, executive director of the Hispanic Society, said the timing of the collaboration is especially fortuitous. "Most of the works in our north building are in a traveling show," he said. "For us this is a win-win situation. It will bring visitors we would not normally see to the Hispanic Society. And Dia's audience is great about traveling."Last year the society announced plans to move downtown where it might attract more visitors. But yesterday Mr. Codding said it abandoned the idea because the society could not come up with any site. "Instead we're focusing on renovating our facilities here," he said.THE SEASON OF DURANDAsher B. Durand, the 19th-century American landscape painter who was a founder of the Hudson River School, rose to a new kind of celebrity two years ago when the New York Public Library sold "Kindred Spirits," his 1849 canvas depicting the painter Thomas Cole and the poet William Cullen Bryant standing on a rocky ledge in the Catskills, to Alice L. Walton, the Wal-Mart heiress, for a staggering $35 million. She has since lent the painting to a Durand exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum, where it is on view through July 29 before it travels to Washington and San Diego.Whenever a work like "Kindred Spirits" sells for a big price, it is generally only a matter of time before other works by the same artist begin appearing at auction. It is not surprising then that on May 24 Christie's will test the Durand market when it auctions "Pastoral Landscape," painted from 1854 to 1861. Cameron Knight, a Washington psychiatric social worker who collects American paintings, bought "Pastoral Landscape" about 12 years ago. It had belonged to the Spalding Memorial Library in Athens, Pa., since around 1900."Periodically you have to realize when it's time to sell and when it's time to buy," said Mr. Knight, who is also selling a painting by William Michael Harnett and another by William Merritt Chase in the same sale. "I'm continually trading up."The Durand, a bucolic, sun-dappled landscape with cows grazing in the field, is estimated at $500,000 to $700,000. It belonged to Edward Henry Perkins Jr., president of the Importers' and Traders' National Bank and his half-brother William Perkins, also a New York banker. In 1899 the Perkins family gave a large portion of their art collection, including this painting, to the Spalding Library.That such an important painting by Durand has never been exhibited has been troubling to Mr. Knight, who is researching the Perkins family. In trying to figure out how the painting found its way into the Perkins collections, he said, he theorized that a relative of the Perkins brothers may have been an engraver who worked with Durand, who began his career as an engraver."The big mystery here is: How could such a major work have disappeared so long ago?" Mr. Knight said. "For someone who was one of the fathers of American painting, the fact that this has never been shown in any exhibitions is curious. It was donated so long ago, it was off the historians' radar. The only explanation is that these were very close friends and associates of the artist."BOOST FOR ART FAIRSMerchandise Mart Properties, the Chicago property management company and trade-show producer, is getting into the art business. This week it announced that it had joined forces with the Armory Show, now in its 10th year, and Voltashow, the three-year-old fair for cutting-edge art conceived as a spinoff of Art Basel and Art Basel Miami Beach.The Armory Show, which began as an informal event conceived by four New York art dealers — Matthew Marks, Paul Morris, Pat Hearn and Colin de Land — to exhibit lower-priced works started out in a series of hotel rooms in Gramercy Park. Since then it has grown to about 150 dealers  from fewer than 30. It has also moved several times and now takes place every February, most recently at Pier 94.Merchandise Mart can provide both shows with a well-oiled infrastructure, Mr. Marks said, because of its ability and expertise in handling backroom operations."It's a very competitive business, and this fair now needs a big operation behind it," he said. "What began as a hobby has turned into something much larger. It's a natural next step."Chris Kennedy, president of Merchandise Mart Properties, which also manages places including the Architects & Designers Building on East 58th Street between Lexington and Third Avenues, explained the connection: "The people who shop in the D&D building also buy art."The death today of Walter Schirra, one of the original "Mercury Seven" astronauts who flew pioneering space missions in the 1960s and 1970s, leaves only two living members of that group, who were as famous as movie stars in the exciting early days of space travel: John Glenn and Scott Carpenter.Here are brief biographies of the seven astronauts.•M. SCOTT CARPENTER Born May 1, 1925, in Boulder, Colo. Graduated from the University of Colorado and joined the Navy, rising to the rank of Commander. Joined NASA in 1959 and flew once, a three-orbit Mercury flight in 1962. After retiring in 1969, he pursued an interest in aquanautics and undersea exploration, and founded Sea Sciences Inc.L. GORDON COOPER JR. Born on March 6, 1927 in Shawnee, Okla. Joined Army R.O.T.C. at the University of Hawaii, later switched to the Air Force and rose to the rank of Colonel. First flew in 1963, making 22 orbits around the Earth; two years later, flew on an eight-day Gemini mission that proved that astronauts could survive in space long enough to attempt a trip to the moon. After retiring from NASA in 1970, he pursued a business career and led the Galaxy Group, a company that refurbished aircraft. He died in October 2004.JOHN H. GLENN, JR., Born July 18, 1921 in Cambridge, Ohio. Joined the Marine Corps, became a pilot, and rose to Colonel. He was the first astronaut to orbit the Earth, in a flight of just under five hours in February 1962. Elected United States Senator from Ohio in 1974 and served four terms before retiring.VIRGIL IVAN "GUS" GRISSOM Born April 3, 1926, in Mitchell, Ind. Flew fighter jets over Korea in the early 1950s and was a test pilot after returning to America, rising to Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Force. Flew a sub-orbital Mercury flight in 1961, nearly drowning when the hatch blew off his space capsule after landing in the ocean. He died in a fire that broke out during testing of an Apollo capsule at Cape Canaveral on Jan. 27, 1967.WALTER "WALLY" SCHIRRA Born March 12, 1923, in Hackensack, N.J.; his father was a barnstorming pilot and his mother occasionally performed aerial stunts. Graduated from the Naval Academy in 1945, became a test pilot and went on to become the only astronaut to fly in all three of the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo programs. After retiring from NASA in 1969 he worked as an aerospace consultant. He died today.ALAN B. SHEPARD, JR. Born Nov. 18, 1923, in East Derry, N.H. Graduated from the Naval Academy in 1944. Became the first American in space on May 5, 1961, just 21 days after Yuri Gagarin of the Soviet Union became the first human in space. His sub-orbital Mercury flight was short, just over 15 minutes, but it proved that American technology could match the Soviets. He was later the fifth man to walk on the moon, and the first to hit a golf shot there. He pursued a business career in Houston after retiring from NASA in 1974, and died in July 1998.DONALD K. "DEKE" SLAYTON Born March 1, 1924, in Sparta, Wisc. Joined Army Air Corps in 1942 as an aviation cadet and flew bombers in World War II. Although certified as an astronaut in 1962, he was told that an erratic heartbeat would prevent him from undertaking a Mercury flight. He became chief of flight operations at NASA and oversaw training and selection of astronauts, finally flying once himself, on the last mission of the Apollo program in 1975. After retiring from NASA in 1982, he led Space Services, an early commercial space venture; he died in June 1993.The News Corporation, owner of the Fox News Channel and The New York Post, has made an unsolicited $5 billion takeover bid for Dow Jones, publisher of The Wall Street Journal.Dow Jones confirmed today that it had received the offer and said that the Bancroft family, which controls the company, was evaluating the bid. "There can be no assurance that this evaluation will lead to any transaction," the company said in a written statement.But some members of the Bancroft family were already mobilizing against the bid. Four hours after Dow Jones made its first statement, it issued a second communication saying that some family members and their trustees planned to vote "shares constituting slightly more than 50 percent of the outstanding voting power of Dow Jones" against the deal."Dow Jones said its board would factor this information into its evaluation," the statement went on.The offer came in the form of a letter to the Dow Jones board two weeks ago, a person close to the situation said.News Corp. offered $60 a share in cash for all outstanding stock in Dow Jones — a whopping premium over the $36.33 closing price on Monday. After news of the offer was reported this morning on CNBC, shares of Dow Jones leaped 58 percent. Trading of the stock was briefly halted on the New York stock exchange as shares approached $58. At the end of the trading day, shares closed up 57 percent, at $56.90.The news had a ripple effect across the media industry today. Shares of media companies rose broadly in trading today, with stock of Reuters, Gannett and The New York Times Company all posting unusually high gains.The acquisition of Dow Jones would broaden the reach of News Corp, owned by Rupert Murdoch, into business reporting and American media in general. The Journal has the second biggest circulation of any American newspaper, more than two million, behind USA Today. In addition, Dow Jones owns a widely circulated newswire service, other business news outlets like Barron's and the MarketWatch Web site. The company had $1.78 billion in revenue last year.Mr. Murdoch already has ambitious plans to add business news reporting to the portfolio of News Corp. In February, News Corp. announced it was moving ahead with plans to start a business cable news channel. The channel, which is scheduled to start broadcasting late this year, will carry the Fox News name.In a written statement confirming the offer today, News Corp. characterized the bid as "friendly" but said little else.Mr. Murdoch has made his desires to own The Journal well known for years. And now that the News Corp. offer has come to light, other suitors for the paper could surface. But the Bancrofts have so far expressed no interest in selling the company, which the family has owned since 1902.But as the years have passed, members of the Bancroft have been less engaged in the company's management. Three Bancrofts serve on the Dow Jones board, but none work for the company.Any sale of the company would require the family's approval. In the mid-1980s, Dow Jones established Class B shares, with 10 times the voting power of the company's common stock. Like similar stock structures at The New York Times Company and The Washington Post Company, the arrangement allows the family to retain control of the company.It was initially unclear what prompted Mr. Murdoch to make his offer now. He has put out feelers in the past but determined that the Bancrofts were not interested in selling. This time, in offering such a large premium for the company, Mr. Murdoch may be trying to present the board with an offer it cannot resist. Like shares of other publishing companies, the stock of Dow Jones has slumped as readers and advertisers have migrated to the Internet, hampering the company's ability to grow.In recent years, Mr. Murdoch has focused his effort more on businesses like his Fox film and TV studios, the BSkyB satellite service in Britain and his MySpace Web business. Meanwhile, the entire newspaper industry has come under pressure — most recently leading to the break-up of Knight-Ridder Inc. and a proposal led by the financier Sam Zell to take the Tribune Company private.The bid for Dow Jones in part reflects Mr. Murdoch's belief that combining the company's print and online assets with a television outlet could prove immensely valuable and competitive.CHICAGO, May 4 — Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich, a second-term Democrat, decided months ago to push a new health care initiative that would be among the most comprehensive  in the country. It would offer not only insurance to everyone in Illinois, but also wellness training, special attention to chronic disease and streamlined administration.Unlike efforts in other states, the plan would not simply shift or borrow money from existing programs but would be financed largely by a new tax on gross business receipts."Every so often, the stars align," Mr. Blagojevich said Tuesday, explaining his timing by alluding to the domination of elected Democrats in positions of power in Illinois government. "You either seize the moment or squander it."In this case, timing may not be everything. Although Democrats control the General Assembly, legislators have had a lukewarm response to the health plan, and several leaders who usually find themselves allied with the governor have expressed outright opposition to the new tax. Among them are Mr. Blagojevich's former running mate, Lt. Gov. Pat Quinn, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson, the civil rights leader.The proposed tax would apply to the gross receipts of businesses that make more than $2 million a year, and would range from 0.08 percent for businesses like retailers or wholesalers to 1.95 percent for service businesses. (Retail sales of food and medicine are exempt.)In addition to his health care plan, Mr. Blagojevich would like to use part of the revenue from the tax to finance improvements in education. He estimates that the tax would generate more than $7 billion a year in net revenue. As the tax code is written now, he argues, big businesses are not carrying their share of the tax burden in Illinois.The proposal has created outrage in the business community, and its unpopularity is threatening to doom the entire health care initiative."I've told the governor it's time for 'Plan B' because a strategic retreat from the G.R.T. is better than overwhelming defeat," said Mr. Quinn,  using a common acronym for the tax. "It's the wrong remedy for a serious issue. I think we can do much better than that."Mr. Jackson has taken to the radio waves, denouncing the tax plan as wrongheaded."It would come through the small-business community like a tsunami," he said in an interview. "For a substantial number of small businesses and many of our established businesses, the tax would be higher than the profit. That is the real problem with it.""We all want health care," Mr. Jackson continued. "But business closure is not good health."Some corporations have threatened to move out of the state should the tax become real. The Illinois Chamber of Commerce has begun a campaign against both the health care plan and the tax, and the state treasurer, Alexander Giannoulias, an early critic of the receipts tax, said his office had been receiving many complaints.National health care advocates are not surprised by the backlash. From California to Pennsylvania, states, in the absence of federal action, have taken on health care issues, searching for ways to expand insurance coverage for the nation's nearly 46 million uninsured. While many proposals are being talked about, only three states have been able to reach the kind of consensus necessary to enact sweeping change: Maine, Massachusetts and Vermont.If it became law, the Illinois proposal, officially called Illinois Covered, would be among the most ambitious, health care experts said. It addresses not only the state's 1.4 million uninsured, but also middle- and working-class families who may be underinsured, regardless of health status.Illinois Covered creates a statewide pool of low-rate insurance plans that anyone can buy. It also offers rebates for middle-income families to help them pay premiums for the state's program or private coverage, and extends access to coverage for those of very low income through a mechanism similar to Medicaid. It would also allow parents to keep adult children on their family policies until age 29, among other benefits."You could say it's 'courageous' or you could say it's 'not politically feasible,' but many who look at state reforms say the key is,  'is the financing adequate?' " said Diane Rowland, executive vice president at the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, a national health research group. "It's not just how you propose to cover people, but are the dollars there to make the coverage real? This proposal seems to be addressing both sides of the equation, talking about coverage while being honest about financing."The savings generated by revamping the system would be significant, one independent study has found. Kenneth E. Thorpe, chairman of the Department of Health Policy and Management at the Rollins School of Public Health at Emory University, concluded that from 2008 to 2011, each dollar spent on Illinois Covered would generate more than $2 in savings. Mr. Thorpe  estimated total savings to be $15.6 billion. The plan would cost about $7 billion.Alan Weil, the executive president of the National Academy for State Health Policy, called the plan ambitious in its reach. "If this happens, I'd put it in the same category as Massachusetts as far as a comprehensive plan designed to reach everyone," Mr. Weil said. "That would put it very much in the lead."He added, "The big step is getting something enacted."Mr. Blagojevich has won unlikely battles in the past. In 2005, he defeated a chorus of critics and signed into law a measure that was, at the time, the broadest plan to insure children by any state. This year, the Kaiser Family Foundation credited Mr. Blagojevich with starting a national movement to provide health care to all children.At a news conference here on Tuesday, AARP, a lobby for older Americans, supported the Blagojevich plan."We're proud to be able to stand by your side," said Bob Gallo, the state director for AARP. "Quite frankly, it's a plan that's long overdue."The governor responded: "We need you in this fight for us. We're up against powerful forces who don't like what we're trying to achieve."With only about a month until the end of the regular legislative session, Mr. Blagojevich has much convincing to do in Springfield, the capital, but he has made it clear that he will not budge on any aspect of the health care plan. He did say, however, that he would listen to "good ideas" about the proposed tax."If I had a magic wand, I'd wave it and create money for health care policy, but I don't," he said.Later he added, "The fairness of what I'm proposing is why I'm all for it."In a bold move to expand his global media empire, Rupert Murdoch, the head of the News Corporation, has made an unsolicited $5 billion offer to buy Dow Jones & Company, the venerable publisher of The Wall Street Journal, which he has long coveted.The offer could set in motion the kind of takeover saga that readers might find in The Journal, featuring larger-than-life personalities, stock market speculators and boardroom maneuvering amid an industry in turmoil.At the center are the members of the reclusive Bancroft family, caught between their long-held belief in newspaper ownership as a public trust and the company's slumping share price, and Mr. Murdoch, one of the most successful — and certainly most polarizing — media barons.The News Corporation made the bid in a letter to the Dow Jones board two weeks ago, offering $60 a share, a startling 67 percent premium over the company's stock price. In extremely heavy trading yesterday, Dow Jones shares rose more than 50 percent, to $58.47, on news of the bid, which was first reported yesterday morning by the business cable channel CNBC.The Bancroft family, which has controlled Dow Jones since 1902, reacted coolly to Mr. Murdoch's gambit. The trustee for the family said that members representing slightly more than 50 percent of the voting shares would oppose the current proposal, leaving unanswered the question of whether some members would be open to a higher bid or even another suitor.There have also been discussions about some family members buying out others  to block the deal, according to people briefed on the talks. Mr. Murdoch, appearing yesterday on the Fox News Channel, which  his company owns, seemed unfazed. "We hope that they will take it calmly and think about it," he said. "We are the same sort of people, with the same traditions, who will be terrific guardians for the paper."Mr. Murdoch has long wanted to own The Journal, the second-largest newspaper in America by circulation, with more than two million subscribers, including online; USA Today has a larger circulation."That would give him real clout in America that he's never had,"  Andrew Neil, a former editor of The Sunday Times for Mr. Murdoch in London, said in an interview. "He thinks he can run it 10 times better."The $70 billion company Mr. Murdoch built from a single newspaper inherited from his father in Australia now includes the Fox TV network and 20th Century Fox film studio, the Fox News Channel and other cable channels, and a swath of other interests including satellite TV businesses in Britain and Italy and the popular Web site MySpace.com. The company's publishing interests include The New York Post, the Times and Sun newspapers in London, and one of the largest newspaper groups in his native Australia.One concern expressed by the Bancrofts, according to a person close to the family, is the future of the News Corporation. Mr. Murdoch is 76; there is no declared successor and his  empire has been built on his singular vision. Although his mostly conservative politics are largely in sync with The Journal's editorial page, some worried that he would exert influence over the  news pages or make the paper more sensational.The family would be more comfortable, said this person, selling to a buyer like Warren E. Buffett or Bill Gates, even at a reduced price.According to someone close to Dow Jones management, all four family representatives on the board are against accepting the bid."It's a combination of things," this person said. "They don't like Murdoch, and they have a proud heritage of owning the paper for 100 years and don't want to give that up."Mr. Murdoch made his first overture three weeks ago when he personally broached the subject of an offer with Richard F. Zannino, Dow Jones's chief, said the person close to management. Mr. Zannino asked him to put an offer in writing. On April 17, Mr. Murdoch sent the letter offering $60 a share in cash or a combination of cash and stock to the Dow Jones director, M. Peter McPherson, who became the chairman the next day at its annual meeting.According to an executive close to the situation, the letter was coolly received initially. This prompted Mr. Murdoch last week to send a second letter to the board and family expressing his great respect for The Journal and its role as a public trust. He said he would welcome a chance to sit down with the family and talk about his vision for preserving and expanding The Journal.At first the letter seemed to succeed, with more than half the family expressing interest in at least considering a bid. Late last week, the Bancrofts  authorized the family trustee, Michael B. Elefante, to retain legal and investment banking advisers to evaluate the bid. But after news of the offer leaked yesterday, family members representing a majority of the company's votes quickly voiced their opposition.Some other investors were not so equivocal. Mark Boyar of Boyar Asset Management, which owns shares in Dow Jones, has been agitating for three years for a sale."The Bancrofts have to take this seriously," he said.  "They don't have a choice."There were at least some investors who may not have been caught unaware by the offer. On Monday, contracts for options to buy Dow Jones shares jumped to 4,335, well over the typical daily volume of 309, according to a report by Bloomberg News.Nearly 44 million Dow Jones shares were traded yesterday, versus less than 1.2 million the day before, which could be a sign that many shares were bought by hedge funds and other speculators betting that the company will be sold, and who could agitate for a deal if the Bancroft family rebuffs the offer.Mr. Murdoch's offer comes as the newspaper industry is under financial pressure and many newspaper stocks, including Dow Jones's, have been in a prolonged slump.  The Journal, while prestigious, is only marginally profitable.Mr. Murdoch said in the TV interview that he believed that bringing The Journal in particular under his umbrella would  give it the resources and global reach it needs to succeed. One executive close to the News Corporation said that Mr. Murdoch last year commissioned a study on the online potential of The Journal. The company's WSJ.com is the largest paid Web site of any newspaper, with 931,000 subscribers, and it also owns the financial site Marketwatch.com.Part of Mr. Murdoch's plan, this person said, is to not just expand The Journal's online presence to other parts of the world where he does business, but to use its online unit as the backbone for a  financial news portal that could draw on material from his far-flung news outlets.Larry Haverty, an associate portfolio manager of the Gabelli Global Multimedia Trust, which holds both Dow Jones and News Corporation shares, said that the two companies were well matched."Dow Jones is electronic journalism disguised as a newspaper," he said. "Next year, we estimate that close to two-thirds of the cash flow will come from electronic businesses: Factiva, Marketwatch, Journal.com. And Rupert's history has been one of moving from print to electronic."Mr. Murdoch's decision to bid for Dow Jones now is also partly motivated by his plans to start a Fox business news cable channel this fall. But  how closely Mr. Murdoch could integrate content from The Journal into its programming is unclear because the CNBC financial channel has an arrangement with The Journal to use its business content until 2012.A spokesman for NBC Universal said that an early cancellation of the contract could be done only by his company, not by Dow Jones.Mr. Murdoch appeared undaunted, saying, "We just want to have a business channel that lives up to the quality and traditions of The Wall Street Journal —  if we can do that, we can do very well."Mr. Murdoch also said that the company did not expect to encounter regulatory difficulties if its offer were to succeed, because The Journal is a national newspaper. Such a deal, however,  would require approval from the Federal Communications Commission and Federal Trade Commission because the News Corporation  owns two TV stations in New York City as well as The Post, which it has a waiver to own because it has not been profitable for years.At the time Mr. Murdoch commissioned the study on The Journal last summer, he told associates that despite putting out feelers to the Bancroft family he was not getting a warm reception. As at other newspapers, including The New York Times and The Washington Post, the trusts that control the majority of Dow Jones's votes were set up to preserve family control and keep outside influences away from the newspaper's journalistic mission. The Bancroft trusts own 24.7 percent of Dow Jones's stock but control 64.2 percent of the votes through supervoting shares.When Mr. Murdoch again put out feelers last month, he  was led to believe that some family members would consider a bid."We did not go into this blind," said another executive close to Mr. Murdoch.There have been ripples of unrest among the Bancrofts before, and Mr. Murdoch may have been encouraged by all the changes in senior management at Dow Jones over the last year. The longtime trustee for the Bancroft family retired, as did Peter Kann, the company's chairman, who  was very close to the Bancrofts."The timing's rather brilliant," said Norman G. Pearlstine, a former managing editor of The Journal who is now an executive with the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm. "None of the family is in management and it isn't clear that the new managers have great ties to the family."News of the offer elicited a negative response from some in The Wall Street Journal newsroom.The Independent Association of Publishers' Employees, which represents the Journal newsroom and other employees, issued a statement yesterday saying that "the staff, from top to bottom, opposes" Mr. Murdoch's bid.Even as some reporters expressed their worries, others took the opportunity to sell some of their Journal shares at a price greatly enhanced by Mr. Murdoch.Two years ago, with Dow Jones stock mired in the low 30s — and unhappy members of the controlling Bancroft family selling off some of their shares — Roy A. Hammer, the longtime trustee for the family, quipped to a reporter: "We'd rather sell at $60 a share. If you know any buyers, send them my way."Yesterday, of course, we learned that a buyer had shown up willing to pay that exact amount. And not just any buyer, but a man who for years has openly lusted for Dow Jones's trophy property, The Wall Street Journal. Rupert Murdoch, the chairman, chief executive and all-around dictator of the News Corporation — and the shrewdest of all the old-school media moguls — has both the means and the motive to buy Dow Jones.Moreover, Mr. Murdoch was willing to make a bid so high and so lacking in the normal economics of deal-making that he effectively scared away any potential competitors pretty much the moment his own offer was unveiled. "The offer is absolutely, insanely high," said James H. Lowell 2nd, who, until last fall, served as a financial adviser to the Bancroft trustees.Elsewhere in our coverage, you can read all the reasons the deal makes sense for Mr. Murdoch — and only him. There's The Journal's powerful editorial page, which meshes with his own conservative politics. The fact that he has a new financial network in the works that will compete with CNBC — and CNBC has a critical alliance with The Wall Street Journal he would like to bust up. His belief that he can use the News Corporation's online expertise to leverage Dow Jones's content in ways the company itself hasn't been able to. Also, he has proved with The New York Post that he's willing to lose money on an asset that serves a strategic purpose."I think he has been pretty consistent in the idea that content is king," said Frederick E.  Rowe, a Dallas money manager who is a longtime News Corporation shareholder. "This fits with everything he is doing."Myself, I wound up marveling at Mr. Murdoch's timing. It has been a little over a year since Peter R. Kann, Dow Jones's longtime chief executive, gave way to Richard F. Zannino, his former No. 2. Although Wall Street has a far higher opinion of Mr. Zannino than it did of Mr. Kann, the stock has barely budged. The newspaper business has continued to deteriorate. Mr. Zannino has discovered that turning around Dow Jones is no easy task — and he might be better off selling it if he could, and walking away the hero.Meanwhile, a growing number of Bancrofts have become dissatisfied with the performance of the stock and the company's seeming inability to do anything about it. Like both The New York Times Company and the Washington Post Company, Dow Jones & Company has two classes of stock, with the Bancrofts controlling the so-called Class B shares, which have 10 times the voting power of the ordinary common stock.But that stock is ensnared in irrevocable trusts, and managed by lawyers at Mr. Hammer's firm, Hemenway & Barnes, who have often seemed more sympathetic to Dow Jones management than to their own clients. Given Mr. Hammer's statement of a few years ago, Mr. Murdoch probably believed that a $60 offer might well bring the family around to the idea that selling the company was their best option. The fact that the family had hired advisers after he first made his offer in a letter two weeks ago might have also given him hope.Financially, of course, his offer is the family's best option. Indeed, it's their salvation."This is the best-case scenario," said William G. Bird, the newspaper analyst at Citigroup. "When you think about other alternatives that might lead you to $60 a share, there aren't any. It's not earning a heck of a lot. And it is a business that is going to continue to suffer and decline in the near term."When I called Mr. Hammer to ask what he thought about Mr. Murdoch's bid, he told me that he was retired and that he hadn't spoken to any Bancrofts or anyone on the Dow Jones management about it. But both he and the majority of the family have long harbored a deep dislike for the way Mr. Murdoch runs his newspapers. And they have long believed that turning the paper over to him — even at such a substantial premium — would be a betrayal of The Wall Street Journal's glorious heritage as a great and serious newspaper, which they've owned for over 100 years.So perhaps it wasn't that much of a surprise that late yesterday afternoon, Mr. Hammer's protégé, Michael B. Elefante, who now represents the Bancroft trusts on the Dow Jones board, issued a statement saying family members and trustees representing "slightly more than 50 percent of the outstanding voting power of Dow Jones" would vote against Mr. Murdoch's proposal.If that does happen, though — if the family tells Mr. Murdoch to take a hike — the likely outcome will be that Dow Jones stock will drop, not back to the mid-30s, where it was before yesterday, but far, far lower. And one has to wonder how the young Bancrofts will feel about Dow Jones's heritage then.For people in the newspaper business, it is a wonderful gift that the family is so willing to stand behind The Wall Street Journal, even as its economics deteriorate. But when families that own one key asset become divided, the solution is usually to sell the asset. Just ask the Binghams of Louisville. Or the Chandlers of Los Angeles.A Bancroft family member once told me, "Without The Wall Street Journal, we're just another rich family." So long as the family feels that way, Rupert Murdoch will be able only to admire The Journal from afar. But if that ever changes, it's his.My guess is that his $60-a-share offer may well begin the process of finally moving the family in his direction.
