DO employees — especially managers — have to be smart?Companies have been known to test for specific job skills, behavior, honesty and even emotional intelligence, when hiring people.But should they also test for intelligence?Increasingly, HR magazine reports, the answer is yes, especially when it comes to executive hirings.The reason is simple, Martha J. Frase writes. "Evidence is accumulating that mental ability is the best way to measure predicted job performance."She adds that academic research shows that "people with higher levels of cognitive ability acquire information faster and more easily, and are able to use that information more effectively."As Ms. Frase notes, not every human resource professional endorses the trend. For one thing, the supposition is that people  being interviewed for management positions have to be fairly smart or  they would not be considered. Seen in this light, an intelligence test is superfluous. What is important is not the candidate's intelligence, which is assumed, but how well the candidate has applied it  — by succeeding in previous jobs.Some human resource experts also raise  concerns that intelligence tests discriminate against certain groups or  may be culturally biased.But, Ms. Frase writes, "rigorously designed and executed intelligence tests are not culturally biased."And according to the human resource professionals and experts quoted in the article, the tests can serve a valid purpose.  Determining  how much one candidate contributed to a project  can be difficult, especially if  multiple team members were involved.MONEY MATTERS It has become commonplace to say compensation is not the most important thing in determining whether an employee will be happy at work. A pleasant environment or an understanding boss, according to conventional wisdom,  is more important.It appears that conventional wisdom is wrong.The Society for Human Resource Management's 2007 Job Satisfaction Survey Report lists the top five contributors to job satisfaction as follows:1. Compensation/pay2. Benefits3. Job security4. Flexibility to balance work/life issues5. The ability to communicate effectively with management.The survey was reported in Family Business Agenda.HEY, WORRIERS  Here's one more thing to worry about."When Australian researchers tested the air in a nonsmoking office, they discovered it was five times more polluted during working hours," Jessica Girdwain writes in Prevention. "The main culprit: laser printers, which emit fine particles of toner that can irritate lungs and cause cardiovascular problems."Among the magazine's suggestions are to  move laser printers off the  desk and try to sit as far away from them as possible; avoid the printer during times when new cartridges are being installed and "when ink-heavy documents are printing;" and whenever possible locate the printers in  well-ventilated areas.FINAL TAKE Apparently, not all New Year's resolutions involve dieting, exercising and being nicer to others.Some 11 percent "of workers elected to change careers in 2007," Essence magazine writes, reporting on a survey by careerbuilder.com, a job search Web site. "And that number is likely to rise" in the year ahead as more people strive to find work that will make them truly happy.Happy New Year!PAUL B. BROWN Philip B. Dusenberry, the advertising executive who oversaw the 1980s Pepsi commercial in which Michael Jackson's hair was accidentally set on fire, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71.The cause of his death was lung cancer, for which he had received treatment for a year, according to Roy Elvove, a spokesman for the advertising firm BBDO.Mr. Dusenberry oversaw the teams at BBDO, an ad agency in the Omnicom Group, that coined famous taglines like "The choice of a new generation" for Pepsi, "We bring good things to life" for General Electric and "It's everywhere you want to be" for Visa.Throughout his career, Mr. Dusenberry emphasized entertainment in TV ad spots, believing that human stories were more attention-grabbing than product details."I'm always going to be searching for emotion," Mr. Dusenberry said in an interview with The New York Times in 1986. "In an age when most products aren't very different, the difference is often in the way people feel about the product."In one Pepsi commercial that attracted national attention in 1985, Geraldine A. Ferraro, the 1984 Democratic nominee for vice president, sat with her two daughters and talked about life."There's one choice I'll never regret," Ms. Ferraro told them. "Being a mother."Most recently, Mr. Dusenberry worked as a volunteer on a team that created the "Generous Nation" public service announcement that featured the line, "Don't almost give. Give."Philip Bernard Dusenberry was born on April 28, 1936, in Brooklyn, the eldest child of a cab driver. He attended Emory & Henry College, in Virginia, on a baseball scholarship, but he dropped out after the athletic program and his scholarship were discontinued.After taking voice lessons to try to lose his Brooklyn accent, Mr. Dusenberry worked as a radio disc jockey. He got his first taste of writing for commercials when the station manager asked him to fill in for the ad writer.Mr. Dusenberry followed a radio colleague to BBDO, which was then called Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn. One of his early commercials for Gillette Right Guard is still remembered as a standout spot in the 1960s. It featured two men chatting through a bathroom medicine chest.Mr. Dusenberry rose to prominence at BBDO in the 1980s, when he was executive creative director. The advertising industry began a wave of consolidations during those years, and many advertising executives were afraid that the trend might hurt creativity. Mr. Dusenberry, on the other hand, publicly supported the idea of mergers. "Bigness is not an enemy," he told The Times in 1986.Mr. Dusenberry was an early advocate of using cinematic techniques and special effects in TV spots, and he often cast celebrities in ads. PepsiCo was one of his longtime clients, and the ads starred celebrities like Lionel Richie, Don Johnson, Madonna and Michael J. Fox.Mr. Jackson was sent to the hospital in 1984 while taping a Pepsi commercial, after special effects meant to produce smoke accidentally exploded. In one negotiation with Mr. Jackson for a Pepsi ad, Mr. Dusenberry demanded that the singer not wear sunglasses in the spot, according to Mr. Dusenberry's memoir, "One Great Insight Is Worth a Thousand Good Ideas," which was originally called "Then We Set His Hair on Fire."His ads were known for their compelling story lines."He does the sort of commercials that you call your wife and kids in from the other room to watch by saying, 'It's on again,'" said John F. Bergin, the vice chairman of McCann-Erickson Worldwide, told The Times in 1986. "He simply comes up with magic."Mr. Dusenberry's focus on advertising as entertainment was prescient of future shifts in advertising. Today, many advertising agencies promote advertainment, commercials that are entertaining in their own right and are sought out by consumers rather than avoided.Mr. Dusenberry also dabbled in the film business. He was a co-author of the screenplay for the movies "Hail to the Chief," a 1973 political satire, and "The Natural," starring Robert Redford. President Ronald Reagan hired him to work on his campaign commercials and the film that introduced Mr. Reagan at the Republican National Convention in 1984.After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in New York, Mr. Dusenberry led the team that made "The New York Miracle" public service campaign to lift the spirits of New Yorkers. And, in 2002, he oversaw the work of several agencies that designed ads to support President Bush's USA Freedom Corps campaign, which encouraged Americans to volunteer.When Mr. Dusenberry retired in 2002, he was chairman of BBDO North America. BBDO's New York office more than doubled its billings under his leadership and won hundreds of awards.He was inducted in 2002 into the Advertising Hall of Fame, in Washington. In October, he was inducted into the Creative Hall of Fame at the One Club, an organization in New York that promotes excellence in advertising.Mr. Dusenberry is survived by his wife, Susan; a stepson, Ben Procter; a daughter-in-law, Ilana Sparrow; a brother, Harry, and his wife, Marcy; a brother, Joseph; a sister, Jean Driscoll, and her husband, Jack.GIVEN THAT WORDS are the bread and butter of psychoanalytic work, it would seem strange on the face of it that very few practitioners have written elegant or even lucid prose. Indeed, they amount to no more than a handful: Freud himself; his daughter, Anna; the British analyst D. W. Winnicott; the much-neglected Leslie Farber; Robert Stoller; Irvin Yalom; Adam Phillips. The field, suffering as it does from an inferiority complex about its relevance to the larger culture, has immured itself behind the high walls of jargon — terms like "introjective identification," "countercathexis" and "unintegrated superego nuclei." This emphasis on opacity is in part an effort to preserve psychoanalysis's waning mystique. Paradoxically, it also underscores the discipline's attempt to validate its much-disputed conjectures about human behavior by appropriating the clinical vocabulary of hard science. Yet for those of us who remain interested in what the talking cure may have to offer (the number dwindles almost daily), the lack of an accessible dialogue between clergy and laity remains a woeful reality.Allen Wheelis stands out in this fallow field for the elegiac sinuousness of his prose, his tonic grimness ("Life is unmanageable, escapes reason") and his willingness to drop the therapist's cloaked persona for a literary one that is more authentic and less elevated. ("We analysts are very defensive about our theory," he wrote in "The Doctor of Desire," a novel about an analyst who falls in love with a female patient. "As well we might be. Conjectural excess has always been our method.") One of his writing's more compelling aspects, which can be felt in all of the 14 books he wrote — the best known of which is "How People Change" — is the seeming ease with which he divulges his own unrequited needs, implacable fears and unacceptable impulses in the name of illuminating his patients' and readers' neurotic quandaries.Wheelis's propensity for self-incriminating and ruthless candor is unmistakeable: his writing, scattered with shards of autobiographical and even confessional material, would be courageous in an ordinary writer. Coming as it does from someone trained in the art and ethos of assuming a veil, a posture of neutrality, the better for his patients to unveil their dodgy inner selves, it verges on the heroic. In "The Listener: A Psychoanalyst Examines His Life," published when Wheelis was 84 and characterized by him as a "self-sketch" rather than an all-out memoir, he identifies sex and death ("these difficult two") together with love ("that impossible third") as making up "the text of my life, this unruly trio." Lest we think he is exaggerating, distancing himself from the clamor of these realities by glossing over them in poetic language, Wheelis opens the book on a brazen note: "When I pick up a novel, I look first for the sexual passages. I want to know what this author thinks can happen between a man and a woman. I discover the girl undressing, examine her undergarments, see her twisting and moaning under her lover. . . . I go right to the limit, the far edge. Before learning whether it's safe for her even to have coffee with this guy or to go for a walk, I have her skirt up, her legs spread wide."Wheelis, who was married twice and had three children, achieved renown as a psychoanalyst in San Francisco, where he saw patients for more than five decades. He never really became part of the orthodox psychoanalytic establishment — largely, it would seem, by choice. He trafficked in existential despair, unceasingly questioning the purposes and limitations of putting people on the couch — in "a room of listening, of longing" — even as he continued working in his chosen field. "I have not found in pyschoanalysis the meaning I sought. I function as guide to the lost, but do not myself know the way."Wheelis grew up in genteel poverty in rural Texas under the rule of a failed, humorless sadist of a father. When, as a young boy, Wheelis came home with a poor grade for conduct, he was made to spend the entire summer cutting the grass with a razor; this punishment is chillingly depicted again and again in his books. His self-effacing mother (who agreed, on her dying husband's insistence, never to remarry) became ever more emotionally dependent on her son after his father died a drawn-out death from tuberculosis at the age of 43, when Wheelis was 9. (In another memoir, "The Life and Death of My Mother," he explores his charged, almost incestuous relationship with her with a quiet and discomfiting directness.) He recalls in "The Path Not Taken: Reflections on Power and Fear" how, as a bullied child, there was a sole encounter in which he had the courage to fight back against an "archtormentor," delivering "a rain of blows." He then immediately goes on to note that this was not the beginning of a triumphant ascension over an instilled timidity: "I did not fight again. . . . I went the other way, found my place and my work among those who are afraid. I understand them better. I help them be less afraid."Wheelis's credentials as a healer were sterling: after graduating from the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University in 1943, he served as a Navy medical officer in the Pacific Theater. He went on to study at the Menninger School of Psychiatry in Topeka, Kan., worked at the Austen Riggs Center in Stockbridge, Mass., and underwent further training at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute before moving in 1954 to San Francisco. He published his first book, "The Quest for Identity," in 1959 and went right on publishing until the end. His last book, "The Way We Are" — a spare inquiry into his preoccupying theme of how to live with unfulfillment lurking on one side and death beckoning on the other — was published more than a month after he died. Despite his prolifigacy, he rarely wrote for analytic journals; one of the few exceptions was a paper published in The International Journal of Psychoanalysis in the mid-'50s titled, tellingly enough, "The Vocational Hazards of Psychoanalysis."Wheelis was a maverick — a resilient pessimist obsessed with the idea, as T. S. Eliot put it, that "human kind/Cannot bear very much reality," while at the same time believing in the value of bringing light to the shadowy corners where psychic cobwebs lurk. He was haunted by the specter of mortality and unpersuaded by attempts to render death as a meaningful conclusion rather than a fated, inescapable end. "A symphony has a climax," he observed in "The Listener": "a poem builds to a burst of meaning, but we are unfinished business. No coming together of strands. The game is called because of darkness." Glen Gabbard, a psychoanalyst at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston who considered Wheelis a friend and a mentor, describes him as "the Samuel Beckett of psychoanalysis — one of the few analysts who wrote about the presence of the gravedigger as he toiled behind the couch." Wheelis's death is a loss to his profession — and to all those who look to his unflinching perceptions to help make sense of the necessary illusions and tenuous self-delusions with which we make our way and carve out bearable lives.Madeleine Stern was a renowned antiquarian book dealer, but her most important discovery was not a book at all. It was a series of lurid stories, all published in gaudy popular journals, all written under a pseudonym, all by New England's fresh and hearty Louisa May Alcott.During her lifetime, the last vestiges of Victorianism gave way to modernism, to pop, to postmodernism. Cars replaced horses. Television, computers, cellphones, the Internet all came to conquer the world she grew up in. She traveled to Europe just before World War II and after. Revolutions came, and revolutions went. But Stern barely registered these changes, for she was creating her own revolution.Stern invented herself. She was the Gatsby of pedants. A fervent but utterly apolitical feminist in a world where feminists were bluestockings and then bra burners; a devoted scholar with a thriving business in a world where scholars were either academics or independently wealthy gentlemen; an innovative and revered entrepreneur in the leather-armchair world of gentlemen antiquarian book dealers; unmarried in a world where women were wives, Stern lived in a universe in which it was not possible to live the way she wanted to. She simply ignored that impossibility, created her own universe and, in a small but exquisite way, changed the world.Stern saw herself quite explicitly as a "pioneer," and perhaps that gentler, old-fashioned word better describes the tenor of her life and her achievements than "revolutionary" does. Raised as the pampered daughter of well-off German Jews long established in America, she attended Barnard and met Leona Rostenberg, the person who was to become her partner in the rare-books business and in life. After reading Stern's two books of memoirs, it is difficult to think of her without Rostenberg — perhaps because even in this most individual of all genres, the autobiography, the two women were together. They wrote "Bookends" and "Old Books, Rare Friends" as joint ventures. They were firm and emphatic that what they shared was love, and that their love was platonic, but as the titles suggest, they saw their lives as one. "Our lives are our legacy, and it is a legacy dominated by the first-person plural."Stern and Rostenberg wrote biographies, scholarly studies and histories — both together and separately — but their greatest art was not writing. (The style, both stiff and florid, has the static, decorative quality of good wallpaper rather than of literature.) They worshiped books, and both had an encyclopedic knowledge that allowed them to discover rare volumes others had overlooked. But their art was not reading, or even "sleuthing," as they sometimes called their literary digging. The two ladies, living and working out of Rostenberg's childhood house in the Bronx, were like great hip-hop D.J.'s, energetic, imaginative artists of sampling. The most personal and inspired art they created were catalogs — brilliant, fascinating, scholarly, witty, inspiring, utterly original catalogs of old and rare books. They saw connections that others missed.Instead of just listing the books they were selling, they had the vision to see the patterns their stock formed. When the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare's birth was celebrated and they had no rare Shakespeare volumes, they designed a catalog of books published in each year of Shakespeare's life. Every book was captioned with a quotation from a Shakespeare play. "Under the date 1566, and under the caption 'O brave new world,' we offered Sir Thomas More's Latin works, including the "Utopia"; under the date 1587, we described an oration on the death of Francesco de Medici, headed with the quotation 'Good-night, sweet prince,' " they wrote in "Old Books, Rare Friends."What brought these remarkable women to the attention of the world outside rare-book collectors — there has even been a musical based on their lives — was their joint discovery regarding Louisa May Alcott. Scholars had long suspected that the potboiler blood-and-thunder stories written by Jo March in "Little Women" reflected real-life sensational stories written by Alcott in her constant early attempts to earn money for her bankrupt family. But no one had ever identified these stories. Until Stern and Rostenberg got on the case. It was Rostenberg who discovered Alcott's pseudonym (A. M. Barnard), giving a war whoop in a silent Harvard library where the two sat doing their research side by side. And it was Stern who uncovered many of the stories after an exhaustive search through the trashy periodicals of the day like The Flag of Our Union and Frank Leslie's Illustrated Newspaper. Stern eventually edited three editions of these stories of murder, adultery and incest written by pink-cheeked America's most beloved 19th-century authoress.In one of their memoirs, they wrote: "We still end each other's sentences. Together we look to the future — to our next find, to our next book, to our next adventure." The authors were 84 and 87. Leona Rostenberg, the elder, died in 2005 at 96. And now her faithful friend is gone, too. But they have left a legacy, and it is more than their discoveries and innovations in their antiquarian book dealings. It is more even than their important discoveries and scholarship regarding printing, early American literature and Louisa May Alcott. They have, as they predicted, left behind perhaps the rarest legacy of all: that of the first-person plural.Fill in the blank: In the mid-'70s, most Americans could name more members of the celebrity panels on "Match Game" or "Hollywood Squares" than they could name ______. If your answer was a) Romantic poets, b) Renaissance painters, c) justices of the Supreme Court or d) anything else highbrow or civic-minded, you'd probably have "matched" any of the anthro-critics who considered American discourse in deep decline. Among their usual culprits: television in general and in particular game shows, perhaps the strongest a posteriori evidence that Americans' brains were getting flabby on cultural junk food.But if you were one of the millions of housewives or home-sick-from-schoolers or summer vacationers who carved out a portion of the day to spend with these shows, you knew that there could be a form of higher intelligence involved: the campy rejoinders of Paul Lynde (who died in 1982) on "Hollywood Squares"; the droll sarcasm of Richard Dawson on "Match Game" (before he became a kissing fool on "Family Feud"); and, on that same show, the daily barb exchange of Brett Somers and Charles Nelson Reilly. For nine years Somers and Reilly provided a midafternoon snack of comedic pas de deux that was sometimes bawdy, sometimes puerile but somehow never cheap. The repartee was hardly the stuff of Mike Nichols and Elaine May or even Sid Caesar and Imogene Coca — they basically tried to match contestants' answers to questions that called for a lot of toilet and underwear jokes — but with Somers and Reilly what mattered more was not what was being said exactly but who was saying it.Many viewers were introduced to Somers and Reilly on "Match Game," as if they'd sprung straight from the Spiegel catalog, the Paris Hiltons of their day, famous for being famous. But both were already accomplished veterans of stage and screen. Somers acted on Broadway and had a scroll of movie and TV credits. Reilly won a Tony in 1962 for "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying," was an acclaimed theater director and had multiple Emmy nominations. And that acting talent could be why on "Match Game" they weren't just panelists but characters. Somers was the middle-aged man-hungry "dumb brunette" with the lefty chicken scrawl, Reilly, the fussbudget forever disparaging her answers, her wardrobe, her decorating skills. In that sense they were forerunners of Will and Grace, the gay man and his gal pal with a bitchy, loving disregard for each other.Not that there wasn't a sexual vibe on the show. In those days, daytime was getting really racy, as young, robust actors on soap operas started showing more skin and stepped up their bed-hopping. But Somers might have been the true sexual pioneer. She wasn't Mae West, 80 trying to act 20, or an embalmed Gabor, but rather, with her Elton John glasses and Toni Tennille hairdo and saucy answers, an average-looking menopausal woman with a healthy regard for sex. In one of the most memorable broadcasts, Somers's husband, Jack Klugman, was on the panel and seemed to be rushing the host, Gene Rayburn, along, as if to say that he and Somers had something better to do.Reilly, meanwhile, was both strapping and doughy, in one sense the embodiment of the pre-AIDS sissy stereotype, with his ascots, hairpieces, shirts opened to the third button and tidy penmanship, and also a prophetic send-up of the post-AIDS hypermasculine gay man, especially when he lowered his voice and became "Chuck," the pipe-smoking alter-ego. Reilly, like Lynde and other gay actors of the time, never named the love that dared not speak its name, but neither did he try to hide it.The decline of the daytime game show in the '80s was perhaps inevitable — more women were working, and with the baby boom all grown up and new competition from video games, there were fewer people to tune in. Shows like "Jeopardy!" and "Wheel of Fortune" thrived at night but were more about the game and less about the show; as all Americans' time budgets became pinched, viewers just couldn't commit to the kind of wit that Somers and Reilly brought to "Match Game." The celebrity-driven shows that remained on the air became graveyards for once-promising talents or never-quite-wases. Somers basically retired, while Reilly returned to the stage and guest TV appearances. Near the ends of their lives each had memorable curtain calls. For Somers it was a one-woman show on Broadway, for Reilly both a play and a film about his life.But neither disavowed their "Match Game" legacy. In one episode of the '90s sitcom "The Larry Sanders Show," Jon Stewart, filling in for the fictional talk-show host Sanders, played by Garry Shandling, laments the fact that he has drawn Reilly again as a guest, and Reilly drops in to take the ribbing. Somers, meanwhile, in a "Match Game" cast reunion a few years ago, was asked to describe the premise of the show. "You get six people who don't know what they're doing, are not smart," she said, "put them on a panel, find two contestants off the street and ask them dopey questions." Then the woman who spoke the words of Odets onstage and of John O'Hara on film said, "It was the best job I ever had."Pants, shirt, jacket. No big deal — now. But back in the early 1970s, before Liz Claiborne became a household name, that outfit was not much of an option for women. Out in the world, you wore a dress or a skirt with a matching jacket. At home, you wore slacks or a housedress. You could be dressed up or dressed down, in other words, but "separates," as the fashion industry calls the way women now dress, had yet to become a phenomenon. Until Liz.As with many figures at the center of a paradigm shift, Claiborne was in the right place at the right time. "I can't tell you we were smart enough back then to say, 'American women are about to join the work force in record numbers, and they're going to need something to wear,' " admits Jerry Chazen, one of Claiborne's original partners. "But there was a busy lady who needed something to wear. We saw a niche."Claiborne understood that niche because she was a busy lady needing something to wear. A Belgian-born high-school dropout who spoke with a kind of accent Americans usually identify as "grand" — "turquoise" was ter-kwaz — Claiborne began her career as a sketcher and a dress model on Seventh Avenue and worked her way up to designer. Her parents were so opposed to her career choice that her father, a banker, dropped her off on a corner in New York City, handed her $50 and did not speak to her for 20 years. On an interview for a job, Claiborne met the fashion executive Art Ortenberg, and although they were both married to other people at the time, they ended up married to each other shortly thereafter, beginning a lifelong collaboration. Within seven months of starting (along with a handful of investors) Liz Claiborne Inc., they were in the black, an unheard-of feat on Seventh Avenue."We started out in the same building," says the designer Stan Herman, who was president of the Council of Fashion Designers of America for 16 years. "I watched her take the fifth floor, then the sixth floor, then the seventh. Finally, they had to move to a new building." The company went public in 1981. Five years later it made the Fortune 500, the first company founded by a woman to do so.It's not that other companies weren't making clothes for working women. But the clothes they were making looked remarkably similar to the clothes men were wearing — conservative blue or camel's-hair jackets, blouses with bow ties. The message was clear: I may be a woman, but don't worry, I'm not that different from you. Claiborne's clothes were actually quite ordinary — high-waisted pants that flared at the bottom, long-sleeved button-down shirts. The revolution was in the details. A talented seamstress herself, she cared a great deal about fit and comfort. "She was a pear-shaped woman," says Chazen, "who knew how to design for women, most of whom are also pear-shaped." She was also one of the first to design in color — bright red, yellow and royal blue, the colors female politicians still wear when they want to be taken seriously. Nor did she focus on the East Coast sophisticate. "She also designed for the woman in Dallas, where the light was different," says her design protégée Dana Buchman.Claiborne also revolutionized the way clothes were sold. Back then, department stores displayed pants with pants, shirts with shirts. She introduced the concept of "outfits." Liz Claiborne pants were sold next to Liz Claiborne shirts with all the dye lots coordinated to match. The innovations made Claiborne a star with a certain generation. "Traveling with her in those days was like traveling with a rock star," Buchman says. "Women were so grateful to her for these clothes."As it happened, Claiborne did not have the personality of a rock star. Sensing the beginning of what is now the global business of branding, her partners pushed her to become more of a public persona. "We didn't need to spend money on advertising," Chazen says, "because all the magazines wanted to write about Liz or have her clothes in their magazine." But in a business of big egos and flashy personalities, Claiborne was a shy person who preferred staying at home to going out at night. "You never saw Liz at the parties," Stan Herman says. "She was like Garbo."As the business got bigger and bigger — today Liz Claiborne Inc. is a $5-billion-a-year company and owns the brands Juicy Couture, Lucky Brand Jeans, Dana Buchman, Kate Spade and Ellen Tracy, among others — she grew more and more miserable. "I found myself spending my whole day in elevators," she once lamented in an interview. "Liz was a lovely person," Chazen says. "That was one of the problems with her being a manager. She didn't know how to say something was terrible, because she knew how hard those designers had worked."In 1989, Claiborne and her husband resigned from the company they started, liquidated their stock and began making grants to wildlife-preservation groups. To date, their foundation has given $40 million away. In this, she was also ahead of her time. "The fashion industry hadn't always been good at giving back," Herman says. "She was among the first." In 2000, the C.F.D.A. recognized that generosity with their Humanitarian Award. Even though the cancer that would eventually kill her was diagnosed three years earlier, Claiborne showed up to accept the award. That night, the woman who built a multibillion-dollar industry on clothes made of bright, happy colors wore black.U.S. patent 2,817,025 was issued almost exactly 50 years ago to a slight, soft-spoken Austrian immigrant who worked in the industrial labs of the Zenith corporation on the West Side of Chicago. Robert Adler was an accomplished physicist who adored nature, books and classical music. He didn't watch much television, but he was nevertheless a genius at improving its gadgetry. His 1957 patent described something called a "new and improved remote control system." Five drawings laid out an architecture for the kind of innovation that would become increasingly common as the century wore on: a media technology that appeared simple, and that promised to make life better for consumers, and that hid its complexity under the guise of compact physical elegance.We like to romanticize inventors as excitable types brimming with revolutionary ideas, when in fact people like Adler often think of themselves as coming up with useful solutions to specific problems. Trying to command machines electronically from a distance is an old challenge; as far back as the late 1800s, Nikola Tesla was patenting a variant of remote-control technology that he claimed could direct a ship from the shoreline. In the 1950s, Zenith's president, Eugene F. McDonald Jr., was convinced that viewers would soon demand a convenient way to avoid irritating product advertisements, either by changing channels, muting the sound or both. In 1950, Zenith created a television remote control called Lazy Bones, which communicated with the set through a wire. This solved one problem (you didn't have to get up to turn off commercials) but created others (you were tethered to the set and now had a tripping hazard at your feet). So a Zenith engineer named Eugene Polley then developed the industry's first wireless remote — a ray-gun-like device, originally marketed in 1955 as the Flash-Matic — that directed light signals at the set. The Flash-Matic solved the Lazy Bones problem (no cord), but it created yet another: sunlight could make your TV go haywire. So McDonald called his researchers to an emergency meeting. He wanted a practical solution. Quick.In those early days of television, this wasn't easy. Wires were out. Light flashes were out. Radio waves were out, because they travel through walls and could change the neighbors' TV channels. Also, batteries were out. Zenith sales managers worried that viewers would think the remote was broken when a battery died. In a 2004 interview for the Web site Archive of American Television, Adler recalled that in response to hearing about the remote-control problem, he remembered that he had visited a steel plant, years before, and noted the high-pitched sound of metal rods striking a hard object. So he returned to his lab with the idea of using ultrasonic sound waves, beyond the range of the human ear, to send signals to a receiver in the television. It turned out to be a superb solution. In Zenith's first ultrasonic remotes, dubbed Space-Commanders, a button activated a tiny hammer that struck a small aluminum rod and sent an inaudible signal to the set. Unlike today's devices, the buttons were not easy to push; the action felt more like hitting a piano key. The first clickers actually clicked.Adler never fancied himself as the father of the remote control, which over time came to utilize batteries, transistors and, nowadays, infrared signals. That his invention became subsumed into the larger culture business, to the point that the noise of modernity required constant muting, or that a universal remote could control dozens of home appliances, was for him a source of surprise. Instead he thought of himself as someone who played a useful role in the evolution of television, a process that took half a century and incorporated the ingenuity of countless scientists and engineers. Through thousands of incremental solutions to thousands of problems, they pushed the technology forward — perhaps as far as it could go. By the end of his life, Adler said he believed the television had effectively reached its technological end point; with the advent of high-definition flat-screen sets, which he worked on at Zenith for decades, he doubted the human eye would really be able to discern further improvements.He was lucky to have been in the right place at the right time. And with about 200 patents to his name, he had an extraordinary run. His last patent — relating to touch-screen technologies, on which Adler was also a key innovator — was awarded shortly before he died. Near the end of his life, he told his old friend John Pederson, the Zenith patent attorney who signed his application for the remote control 50 years before, that he wished he could be more useful. His mind remained agile. But being stuck ill in bed was no place for an inventor.Pepsi AdsIn the late 1940s and early 1950s, a certain unease could be detected about the American drift toward a culture of selling, marketing and consumerism. Even Fortune magazine opined in 1947 that "the American citizen lives in a state of siege from dawn till bedtime," seeming to echo the sentiments raised in the best-selling novel "The Hucksters" and the celebrated play "Death of a Salesman." One sales executive at the time, a man named Edward Boyd, later recalled leaving a performance of Arthur Miller's famous play in tears. "I related to it," he said. Even so, Boyd stuck with his job, possibly because his own role in the machinery of American selling was a bit more complex: He was a black man building an African-American sales force within the Pepsi-Cola Company when corporate America was anything but integrated.Boyd was hired by Pepsi, which was based in New York, in 1947, when he was 33; he grew up in California and graduated from U.C.L.A. His story is a key element of the recent book "The Real Pepsi Challenge," from which the above anecdote is taken and in which Stephanie Capparell argues that Boyd and those he hired helped break the color barrier in big business.In the post-World War II economy, black Americans were still marginalized in two ways: in their access to better professional jobs and also as consumers. The latter point was not trivial, if you consider that lunch-counter sit-ins, lawsuits against hotels and other key tactics in the civil rights struggle were fundamentally about marketplace access. According to Capparell, "Unlike the mainstream media, the African-American press didn't join the chorus of criticism of business." Instead, black newspaper publishers informed the marketing trade about the untapped potential of black consumers. No doubt they wanted advertising dollars from the big companies that had previously ignored them, but the implicit message was that in a market-driven economy, consumer equality matters. Ebony went so far as to call the African-American embrace of the Cadillac, and G.M.'s supposed discomfort about that embrace, part of the "war for racial equality." And indeed, part of what Boyd had to contend with was a perception that brands adopted by blacks might be rejected by whites.Other companies were using black entertainers and athletes in ads, but Boyd wanted to move in a different direction, with a series of ads called "Leaders in Their Fields," highlighting black professionals, including Ralph Bunche, the diplomat and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1950. While these were clearly Pepsi ads, schools and universities ordered up copies. For store promotions, Capparell writes, "he wanted to show a black family in the same kind of idealized setting as those used in mainstream ads." And while the "Leaders" campaign was extended twice, increasingly the African-Americans in Pepsi's ads tended to be happy, young, bourgeois consumers, and inspirational copy gave way to more familiar (and banal) sales pitches: "So Much More Fun! So Much More Zest!"His job was not easy: Boyd was thrown out of hotels and had to confront his white boss about using an offensive racial epithet. But from today's perspective, what seems remarkable isn't the pervasiveness of ignorance and racism but the degree to which these things trumped even the profit motive. Pepsi seemed enlightened by the mere act of openly courting black consumers. Its dominant rival, the Coca-Cola Company, did not advertise in the black press at all until 1951 — and its ads did not depict black faces until the mid-1950s.Boyd's career at Pepsi ended in 1951. In the years after a management change at the company, he and much of the team he assembled left. After stints at an ad agency, the humanitarian organization CARE and in consulting, he retired in 1981 and started raising alpacas upstate. Meanwhile, the commercial-culture "state of siege" that Fortune bemoaned 60 years ago never let up, though today the world depicted in mainstream advertising has become a harmonious place, where buddies of all races happily pursue consumer dreams together. In his comments to Capparell, Boyd seemed proud of his contribution. Perhaps the world depicted in advertising, then and now, was a fantasy, but part of Boyd's thinking seems to be that it's a fantasy that black consumers wanted to be part of — and would respond to.GARY HAMEL'S latest book, "The Future of Management" (Harvard Business School, $26.95),  comes at  a time  when American companies face a new avalanche of competition from China and India, as well as entrenched competition from Japan and Western Europe. Mr. Hamel, a co-founder of the Management Innovation Lab, offers a way for business leaders to face this onslaught through what he calls "the technology of management."If companies now innovate by creating new products or new business models, he asks, why can't  they  do the same in how they manage organizations? Might not a more modern approach to management  be just the ticket to keep American companies ahead of their global competitors? This would entail moving from a century-old command-and-control model to a more latticed, networked style of organization.If industrialization and world wars created one model of management hierarchy shared by business and the military, perhaps the next set of management ideas should be spawned by the Internet and the upheaval it has prompted in how humans think about information and community.Mr. Hamel, who wrote this book with Bill Breen,  critiques three companies that he argues may be harbingers of the future: Whole Foods Market, W. L. Gore & Associates (a privately held company that invented Gore-Tex, among other products) and Google.Whole Foods has organized itself into roughly eight teams at individual stores, all of whom have  the mission of improving the food that Americans eat. These teams, which have the right to hire and fire their own members, are given wide latitude about what to stock on the shelves and how to manage their stores as a whole.But their performance numbers are open to all to behold, and their compensation is strongly linked to  team, not individual,  performance. "Unlike so many other companies, front-line employees at Whole Foods have both the freedom  to do the right thing for customers, and the incentive to do the right thing for profits," Mr. Hamel writes.The fact that front-line employees are empowered to respond to the changing tastes of finicky shoppers is powerful. "In a more hierarchical company," Mr. Hamel argues, "top management only sees problems once they've become pervasive and, therefore, expensive to fix."At Gore, which was founded by a former DuPont executive in Newark, Del., teams that are small, focused and self-managing have wide latitude to pursue new ideas. Their products have shown up in things as diverse as surgical meshes implanted in medical patients and space suits worn by NASA astronauts. Employees have "dabble time" to pursue their own ideas and are given permission to push back against those in power above them.Mr. Hamel writes that companies  organized in this way challenge the very notion that a manager is "above" in the hierarchy and that a researcher is "below."As has been widely reported, Google also creates small teams of  bright people who are encouraged to pursue seemingly wild ideas. It embraces the 70-20-10 rule — that the company should devote 70 percent of its engineering resources to its base business, 20 percent to services that might expand from that core and 10 percent to "fringe" ideas.To his credit, Mr. Hamel doesn't fall completely for the Googlemania  dominating headlines these days. "Despite its innovation-friendly management model, Google's fortunes are still tied to one business: search-driven advertising," he says. "Odds are, Google will never find another Google, since truly revolutionary, global-scale business models don't come along every day, or even every decade."Whatever shortcomings Google may have,  Mr. Hamel  argues that these innovative companies  realize that employees should not be treated like 13-year-olds who need clear boundaries  on their freedom. Employees are on the front lines and are often closest to customer needs. As a result, they should have  power to reveal to their hierarchies what products and services are needed, and they should be involved in deciding how the company's time and money  are spent. Moreover, they should be pursuing a passion or a mission, not just quarterly profits.The implication of all this is that we don't need as many managers in organizations. Yes, we still need some managers and some centralized processes to prevent an organization from spinning wildly in all directions. But the best organizations will be those whose employees have the power to innovate, not just follow orders from on high, Mr. Hamel says. In such an environment, the notion of a whole class of managers evaluating and re-evaluating each action of those below  them in a vertical hierarchy becomes nonsensical.Some major companies are already experimenting with these ideas. I.B.M., for example, had an online "innovation jam" in 2006 in which 100,000 employees, customers, consultants and others sought to communicate their views to  Samuel J.  Palmisano, the chief executive. Top management gave funding to the best  ideas. I.B.M. also encourages its researchers to make decisions about what projects to pursue, without being ordered to do so.If American companies could achieve  the right balance between grass-roots initiative and centralized control, between the pursuit of noble missions and quarterly profits, the  results could be a management system that would be very hard for competitors to copy. Chinese companies, for example,  would find it much harder, if not impossible, to adopt management models that challenge their own brand of top-down management, a cross between Confucius and Mao.As insightful as Mr. Hamel's book is, it's surprising that it has attracted so little attention since being published in October. One part of the explanation is that  it represents an assault on business schools, which obviously specialize in training managers who go on to enjoy rich salaries. Mr. Hamel has the audacity to point out that some of the best, most innovative ideas in business these days are not coming from business schools, but from people who never went to B-school.  Every hierarchy, it seems, scorns fresh thinking.WashingtonTHIS is the 34th annual office pool in this space, a New Year's tradition that has become the most excruciating multiple-choice prediction test in world media. Nostradamus himself couldn't score over 50 percent. Last year, despite a good bet on surging optimism in Iraq, I was mistaken 12 times out of 15. But the audacity of hope springs eternal; here, together with fearless readers, I go. For each item, choose one, all or none.1. The business headline of the year will be: (a) Big Bounce to 15,000 Dow After Soft Landing(b) Recession Has Brokers Selling Apples for Five Euros on Wall Street(c) Subprime Mess Was Greatly Exaggerated(d) China Buys Boeing2. The Academy Award for Best Picture will go to: (a) "There Will Be Blood"(b) "Sweeney Todd"(c) "American Gangster"(d) "The Kite Runner"(e) "Charlie Wilson's War"(But don't expect winners to cross picket lines to pick up their Oscars.)3. The Roberts Supreme Court will decide that: (a) gun rights belong to the  individual, but the Second Amendment's key limitation is that gun possession should be "well-regulated"(b) states can require voter ID to prevent fraud even if it reduces access(c) lethal injection is not cruel or unusual punishment if it isn't painful(d) the "ancient right" of habeas corpus applies to Guantánamo detainees no matter what law Congress passes4. The fiction sleeper best seller will be: (a) "Missy," a first novel by the British playwright Chris Hanna(b) "Shadow and Light," by Jonathan Rabb, set in prewar Germany5. The nonfiction success will be: (a) "American-Made: The Enduring Legacy of the W.P.A.," by Nick Taylor(b) "What Do We Do Now?" interregnum advice by Stephen Hess of the Brookings Institution(c) "Counselor: A Life at the Edge of History" by Ted Sorensen, President Kennedy's alter ego(d) "Basic Brown," a memoir by Willie Brown, former mayor of San Francisco(e) "Human," by the neuroscientist Michael Gazzaniga(f) "Come to Think of It," by Daniel Schorr6. The media world will be rocked as: (a) fizzling ratings for a China-dominated '08 Olympics induce G.E. to sell NBC Universal to cable-departing Time Warner(b) "pod push-back" by music customers threatens Apple's dominance of digital music space(c) Google challenges telecommunications giants by taking steps to provide both telephone and video on the Internet7. In United States foreign policy debates: (a) success in Iraq will embarrass cut-and-run Democrats(b) failure in Iraq will sink stay-the-course Republicans(c) Iraq muddling along won't affect the American election8. The de facto dictator truly leaving the political scene this year will be: (a) Hugo Chávez(b) Vladimir V. Putin (afflicted by the Time cover jinx)(c) Robert Mugabe(d) Fidel Castro9. By year's end, American diplomats will be negotiating openly with: (a) Hamas(b) the Taliban(c) Iran10. The two-state solution to the Arab-Israeli dispute appears when: (a) a free election or civil strife in the West Bank and Gaza brings a unified, neighborly government to the Palestinians(b) an Ehud Barak-Benjamin Netanyahu rematch results in a majoritarian, rightist coalition victory(c) the Jerusalem division issue is resolved by expanding the official city limits to embrace two capitals11. Assuming the Iowa caucuses to be meaningless pollster-media hype, the January primary state with the biggest influence on the outcome of both parties' nominations will be: (a) New Hampshire(b) Michigan(c) South Carolina(d) Florida12. The American troop level in Iraq at year's end will be: (a) the present 152,000(b) the pre-surge 130,000(c) 100,000 and dropping steadily13. The issue most affecting the vote on Election Day will be: (a) immigration: absorb 'em or deport 'em(b) taxation: soak the rich or lift all boats(c) health plans: incentivize or socialize(d) diplomacy: accommodating realism or extending freedom14. The presidential election will hinge primarily on: (a) a debate blooper(b) success or failure in Iraq(c) Hispanic backlash(d) a personal scandal(e) a terror attack on the United States(f) racism/sexism(g) the economy, stupid15. The Democratic ticket will be: (a) Hillary Clinton-Barack Obama(b) Obama-Clinton(c) Clinton-Bill Richardson(d) Obama-Joseph Biden(e) John Edwards-Dianne Feinstein16. The Republican ticket will be: (a) Rudolph Giuliani-Mike Huckabee(b) Mitt Romney-Gen. David Petraeus(c) John McCain-Michael Bloomberg17. The winning theme in November will be: (a) time for a change(b) don't let them take it away(c) experience counts(d) nobody's perfect18. The election will be decided on: (a) charisma(b) experience(c) character(d) sex(e) money(f) issues19. As 2009 dawns, Americans will face:(a) a leftward march, with the Clintons in the White House and a Democratic Congress feeling no tax, entitlement or earmark restraint(b) creative gridlock, as President McCain finds common ground with a centrist Democratic Congress(c) a stunning G.O.P. conservative resurgence, with the equally long-shot Washington Redskins girding for the 2009 Super BowlMy picks: 1 (a); 2 (a); 3 (all); 4 (b); 5 (a); 6 (b); 7 (c); 8 (d), and I've been losing this bet against Castro for 33 years; 9 (none); 10 (all); 11(c) 12 (c); 13 (b); 14 (a); 15 (a); 16 (c); 17 (d); 18 (c); 19 (b). Lose this list.
