ALLENTOWN, Pa., Nov. 7 — On Tuesday night, in a plush tour bus parked in this city's scruffy downtown, a couple of Norwegians were talking about world music. They were talking about the competing musical traditions of Norway and Sweden. They were talking about Icelandic linguistics and Viking mythology. They were talking about indigenous scenes in Canada, India and lots of places in between. In other words, they were talking about heavy metal.The Norwegians were Ivar Bjornson and Grutle Kjellson, who founded their metal band, Enslaved, 16 years ago. They were once identified with the spooky — and, for a time, hugely controversial — subgenre known as black metal, but they have sloughed off one label after another while slowly building a worldwide following.Not a huge one: They are rock stars, more or less, in Norway, but they are decidedly underground figures in most of the rest of the world. Still,  that a hundred or so fans came out to see them at the Crocodile Rock Café, a cavernous Allentown club, says something about the tenacity of the genre and the band. The members hurtled through a typically eerie, riveting set, propelled by tricky rhythms, keyboard atmospherics, mutating guitar riffs and careful but cathartic explosions of noise and screaming.This was the fourth date of a grueling five-week tour, and the unglamorous surroundings only underscored the mixed blessing of being in a band like this one. Being a working metal band often means touring the world indefinitely.On a chilly night at the Crocodile Rock, that might not have seemed like good news to the band members. But it should be good news to adventurous listeners around the country, including those in New York: Thursday night the band is scheduled to play the B. B. King Blues Club & Grill. And you don't have to be an expert in Scandinavian history — or even a metal fan, really — to enjoy getting lost in the group's epic, elegant music.Enslaved went from being called "black metal"  to being called "Viking metal" to being called "progressive metal," though the members prefer the catch-all term "extreme metal." And in an Internet age especially, extreme metal both transcends national boundaries and, in a fertile way, emphasizes them. "Evil" imagery exists everywhere, inspiring scenes all over the globe. And as old-fashioned Satanic imagery has given way to subtler allusions to pre-Christian culture, obsessive fans have gotten used to doing online homework to keep up with the lyric sheets. If you like Enslaved, for example, you probably know that Mr. Kjellson used to sing in Icelandic because of that language's similarity to Old Norse, and you may even know something about ancient runes.Now Mr. Kjellson mainly sings in English, partly in an attempt to close the language gap with non-Norwegian fans, many of whom had been following the band's evolving interests by reading the English translations included in some albums. Mr. Bjornson said the foreignness of English was a benefit too: "That dissonance helps, getting into character, removing ourselves from our daily lives."On the most recent Enslaved album — a great CD from 2006 called "Ruun" (Candlelight USA)  — the English-language lyrics are more suggestive than bombastic. Hints of the old black-metal misanthropy remain ("I do not pity life/I follow not pathetic order"), but the mood is more melancholy than pugnacious. The title track, one of the highlights of Tuesday's show, is a crashing paean to the old gods, building from a prog-rock introduction to a seething climax: "Reach for them, see them turn away."From listening to the latest CD, you might never guess that Enslaved was once associated with one of the most reviled music scenes of all time. In the early 1990s Norwegian black metal made headlines with a series of high-profile events: one musician's suicide, a spate of church burnings and the conviction of two prominent figures — Faust of Emperor and Varg Vikernes of Burzum — for murder.One of Enslaved's first releases was a split album with Emperor, and Mr. Bjornson admits that the media storm helped draw attention to Norwegian black metal. "People still regard Norway with a certain respect," he said. "Not only because of all the scary stuff that happened — well, 'weird' is a better word — but because of how the scene developed, on its own." Then, having benefited from the controversy, many bands associated with black metal had to figure out a way to live it down.Enslaved did it by persevering and by changing: The members view "Monumension," an excellent and mysterious-sounding album from 2001, as the beginning of a new phase. And in Norway the members of Enslaved are settling into their unlikely roles as respected veterans. Oddly enough, the Norwegian Ministry of Culture and Church Affairs sponsored a collaboration between members of Enslaved and the noisy electronic duo Fe-mail. The hybrid group is called Trinacria (you can hear live tracks at myspace.com/trinacriamusic), and a full-length album is due next year. Extreme metal, which once seemed like a threat to Norway's cultural heritage, is inevitably coming to be seen as part of it. How long before the government finances an ad campaign, inviting black-metal fans from around the world to come to the most evil country on Earth?Certainly some sort of cultural exchange program seemed to be under way at the Crocodile Rock on Tuesday, where Mr. Kjellson kept saying, "You having a good time, Allentown?" Or, "Thank you, Allentown, Pennsylvania." Or, "This is the last song for tonight, Allentown."Before long, the city name was starting to sound like a curse word, or maybe just a reminder that the life of a touring extreme-metal band is hard work. But Mr. Kjellson surely knows that the genre's popularity in a handful of European countries is the exception, not the rule. Around the world metal endures — and, in its own subterranean way, flourishes — in nooks and crannies.It was now early on Wednesday morning in empty downtown Allentown, and the small crowd in the big club remained. As the band prepared to play the savage title track from "Isa," Mr. Kjellson said, "I guess most of you already know this one." And he guessed right.Fats Domino offered just a taste of music during the all-star benefit concert held in his honor on Thursday at the Chelsea nightclub Pink Elephant. Taking his place at a grand piano, he laid into the familiar triplet vamp of "Blueberry Hill." In short order he was singing that landmark hit, in his agreeable and remarkably ageless New Orleans drawl.This lasted barely a couple of minutes, time enough for one loping run through the song's 32-bar form. Then Mr. Domino, visibly perturbed by the flashbulbs at the foot of the stage, cut the number short. His backing band revved it up again, this time as exit music. The whole incident felt like a mirage: tantalizingly vivid, and maybe a tiny bit cruel.Not that anyone was complaining. Mr. Domino, 79, is one of the most famously media-shy personalities in American music and performs rarely. He was helping raise funds for the Tipitina's Foundation, a New Orleans  organization dedicated to preserving Louisiana's musical cultures; its executive director, Bill Taylor, produced the star-studded new album "Goin' Home: A Tribute to Fats Domino" (Vanguard).There was a ceremonial touch this time too. Moments before "Blueberry Hill," Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had presented Mr. Domino with a key to the city. Mr. Domino, in his pinstripes and pink tie, had obligingly posed for an official photo op.For anyone familiar with his reticence, this might have seemed enough. But on his way offstage, he was coaxed into a reunion with Lloyd Price, the New Orleans singer whose groundbreaking 1952 hit "Lawdy Miss Clawdy" featured Mr. Domino on piano."Everybody knows this was the beginning of rock 'n' roll," Mr. Price said as a preface to the song.  His singing was strong, even youthful — he apparently has access to the same elixirs as Mr. Domino — and the tune held up to its pedigree.Just as strikingly, Mr. Domino came alive. His face lit up as he played, and at one point he quietly mouthed the words. For a moment, at least, he was luxuriously comfortable as a sideman. While he didn't stay on for "Stagger Lee"  — another trademark hit for Mr. Price, and another dynamo — he had gone above and beyond the call. For the next hour or so, he was visible in a booth along the club's upper tier.Brief stretches of the show recreated the arrangements on "Goin' Home." Toots Hibbert, of Toots and the Maytals, sang his reggae-infused take on "Let the Four Winds Blow." The blues singer and jazz trumpeter Olu Dara mumbled through "When I See You." And the pianist Allen Toussaint performed rock-solid renditions of "I'm Walkin'" (a Tom Petty track on the album) and "I'm in Love Again" (a vehicle for Bonnie Raitt).Throughout the night there was flawless accompaniment, thanks to a crew led by the guitarist Leo Nocentelli and the Hammond B-3 organist Ivan Neville, both New Orleans natives. At times they had the spotlight to themselves and filled it with classic jams by the Meters, who once counted Mr. Nocentelli as a member. "People Say" and "Just Kissed My Baby" sounded rugged and sharp, and "Cissy Strut" was nearly a showstopper."Hey Pocky A-Way," which came near night's end, felt even better. Halfway into the tune the alto saxophonist Donald Harrison — a k a Big Chief Harrison, of the Congo Nation tribe of Mardi Gras Indians — belted a call-and-response vocal that was pure New Orleans. Mr. Domino had left the building by then. But he surely would have approved.CHRIS BROWN"Exclusive" (Jive/Zomba)Two years ago a 16-year-old R&B singer and dancer named Chris Brown stormed the pop charts, brimming with boyish enthusiasm. His self-titled debut album had hard hip-hop beats to match his lightweight love songs, and part of his appeal was that he wasn't too old to flash a big smile or flaunt his good manners. When he wanted to get a young woman's attention, he let out a gentle "Yo!" Then he corrected himself, adding: "I don't know your name, but excuse me, miss/I saw you from across the roooom." His was a simple and hugely effective strategy; in a radio landscape dominated by sordid R&B and gruff hip-hop, Mr. Brown out-niced the competition.Now Mr. Brown returns as a relative veteran and, as of a few months ago, a legal adult. It hasn't been easy. After a single, "Wall to Wall," failed to build momentum, his new album, "Exclusive," was delayed. (It once had a scheduled release date of Aug. 28.) Now he's back on top with "Kiss Kiss," the second single, which hit No. 1 on Billboard's Hot 100 chart last week. But he had some help: The song features T-Pain, who seems capable of making a hit with just about anyone. (So far this year six singles by or featuring him have gone Top 10 on the Hot 100; three more have done that on Billboard's hip-hop and R&B charts.)Oddly, "Exclusive" finds a formerly enthusiastic boy sounding a bit anxious about his position as a full-grown lover-man. The album begins with "Throwed," a rather inert dance track that's supposed to be a tribute to the homegrown Washington funk sound known as go-go. (Mr. Brown explains, not quite convincingly, "You know, being from Virginia, I gotta go back to my roots.")Elsewhere he borrows brazenly from R&B contemporaries: "With You" could almost be a cover of Beyoncé's "Irreplaceable." (It was produced by Stargate, the team partly responsible for that song.) "Damage," a dreary ballad, isn't improved by the T-Pain-ish vocal processing. "I Wanna Be" starts with a sotto-voce introduction that's bound to remind listeners of Usher's "Burn." It's odd to hear a likable young star sounding so desperate.But when he relaxes a bit, he discovers that his old approach — playful beats, flirty come-ons  — works as well as it ever did. "Hold Up" has a squelching bass line and some loopy rhymes from Big Boi, and "Lottery" is four woozy minutes of Mr. Brown in can-I-have-your-number mode. Then there's "Down," a thrilling mishmash with a stomping beat, a heraldic electric guitar line, a memorable Kanye West appearance and a monster chorus that should come blasting out of radios sometime in the next few months. (A label spokesman said that "Down" would be included only on the special deluxe edition of the album. Why?) That song alone is reason enough for Mr. Brown to keep smiling. KELEFA SANNEH JOSH TURNER"Everything Is Fine" (MCA Nashville)One of the top country stars to emerge in the 21st century, Josh Turner sold a million copies of his debut album, "Long Black Train," with a title song that pondered temptation and redemption. He sold two million copies of his second album, "Your Man," which savored sensuality. Yet on "Everything Is Fine," his third studio album, he grows more calculated and blander rather than bolder.What's worked for him before is back again. He uses his deep, relaxed bass-baritone voice for manly reassurance, monogamous come-ons, good-ol'-boy vignettes and pious moments. The music leans toward country, not country-rock, and it's assured without being overbearing."Another Try," a remorseful duet with Trisha Yearwood, chooses countrypolitan reflection over what could have been power-country bombast.But too many songs are just checklists, with no undercurrents or twists. Mr. Turner, who wrote or collaborated on 7 of the album's 12 songs, works through mild double entendres in the honky-tonking "Firecracker" — deadpanning a spoken "bang!" in his low register near the end.  And he delivers line after line of testimonial in the heartland rocker "Baby, I Go Crazy" and the slow-dance "Soulmate."The only surprises arrive in borrowed songs: "The Longer the Waiting," a Celtic-rooted sailor's goodbye, and "Nowhere Fast," a bluesy Southern-soul song from Mr. Turner's duet partner on the track, Anthony Hamilton. As they sing about last-ditch desperation and longing for redemption, "Nowhere Fast" makes the rest of the album sound even more complacent.JON PARELESLITTLE BIG TOWN "A Place to Land" (Equity)The four-piece country band Little Big Town broke through in 2005 with an oddly defensive statement of regional pride called "Boondocks." The chorus goes: "I feel no shame, I'm proud of where I came from/I was born and raised in the boondocks." And the members, all of whom sing, delivered it as if they were expecting a fight.That song helped the group's second album, "The Road to Here," sell more than a million copies, and now comes "A Place to Land," carrying with it some higher expectations and the same rich vocal harmonies. The group's slick version of roots rock makes perfect sense, in retrospect. Why shouldn't an ambitious group of singers and songwriters forge a link between '70s folk-rock (in a booklet photograph the member Jimi Westbrook wears a Crosby, Stills & Nash T-shirt) and '00s country-pop?Sometimes the pseudo-folksy lyrics (here's a one-word quotation: "dang") and not-quite-rowdy rock songs (like the album-ending "Fury") sound a bit thin. But if the members think their combined voices are sweet enough to propel a Stevie Nicks-ish ballad ("To Know Love") or a wistful ode to life on the road ("I'm With the Band," the current single), they're absolutely right. One song, "Vapor," pays tribute to the members' Christian faith and to their own lofty goals: "He was here only 33 years/But his life changed the world, and he gave up all he had/I want to leave a legacy like that." Is that all? KELEFA SANNEH'I'M NOT THERE'Original Soundtrack(Columbia Records)Todd Haynes's film "I'm Not There" uses only six different people to portray Bob Dylan. The soundtrack uses 28. They are singer-songwriters of three generations, from Willie Nelson to Mira Billotte, the severe-voiced young singer of White Magic. And they cover all kinds of Bob Dylan songs, overplayed to obscure, from "All Along the Watchtower" to "I'm Not There."A few tracks amount to self-conscious, egregious hipster karaoke, as performed by singers like Cat Power, Karen O of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, and Stephen Malkmus, sometimes singing over an indie-rock, supergroup house band including the guitarist Nels Cline and organist John Medeski. Decent singers end up chasing shadows, sounding callow and grasping in the songs' ever-repeating structures.But a few performers seem less wry and calculating. Either they really and truly like the Dylan songs they're singing, or they decided to treat them neutrally as canvases for their own sounds. One is Jim James from My Morning Jacket, whose voice in "Goin' to Acapulco" slightly resembles the nasal Dylan of "Nashville Skyline" but then inflates to giant size; another is Sufjan Stevens, who builds up the religious-themed "Ring Them Bells" into an industrious little world of arrangements. BEN RATLIFFBUCK 65"Situation" (Strange Famous)The Canadian rapper Buck 65 has virtually nothing in common with mainstream hip-hop and only a few connections to what's called alternative or backpacker rap — mostly  his willingness to free-associate in rhyme. He's closer to Tom Waits, with whom he shares a raspy delivery and a fascination with the lowlife on urban fringes. Although Buck 65 (Ricardo Terfry) was born in 1972, he and Mr. Waits also share an affinity with 1950s culture, from Beat poets to tail-fin cars. The first full song on "Situation" is "1957" — 50 years ago — and Buck 65's rhymes throughout the album allude to '50s figures and events, from the pinup Bettie Page (who gets a whole song, "Lipstick") to Allen Ginsberg, the Korean War, abstract expressionism, Pat Boone, Sputnik and Che Guevara.Buck 65 sees the '50s as a time of cold war fears, cultural repression and rebellious libidos breaking through. He clearly identifies with "disobedient hicks addicted to the main ingredient."His voice scrapes against minor-key tracks full of moody keyboard lines as he raps about a pornography photographer in "Shutter Buggin'," jazz and poetry in "Beatific" and a vice-squad cop in "Spread 'Em." If he's in any way nostalgic for the era he never saw, what he misses now — in an era with its own chronic fear and shrinking liberties — are  taboos to transgress with pleasure. JON PARELESCARLA BLEY"The Lost Chords Find Paolo Fresu" (Watt/ECM)This is a record alive with patient intelligence. Carla Bley's newish quartet, the Lost Chords, is a reduction of her  more commonly known Big Band, and here it's in no hurry; it just saunters gloriously through her original music.Ms. Bley's wit can have a very soft, knowing touch. She writes tunes that are slightly aslant, like the five-bar cycles and five-beat rhythms that run through the first six pieces on the record. (They form a suite called the "Banana Quintet" — yes, in six parts.)The band sounds cohesive enough as is, with Ms. Bley on piano, Steve Swallow on bass, Andy Sheppard on saxophone and Billy Drummond on drums. (Mr. Swallow and Mr. Drummond have found their delicate, low-impact groove; you rarely hear medium tempos so slow and happy.) But for this record the band has a fifth player in Paolo Fresu, the excellent Italian trumpeter. Mr. Sheppard and Mr. Fresu sound right together, meshing their lines and improvisations, making elegant compound colors. But they don't detach from the band. They serve a larger mood and purpose, one that extends from Thelonious Monk's ballads and some of Steve Lacy's most beautiful and temperate later music. It's serene, urbane and full of its own secrets. BEN RATLIFF ON a recent Sunday afternoon the Queen of Soul's hotel room on Central Park South looked like an executive's pit stop. Aretha Franklin had returned to New York City late after a concert in New Jersey, and the morning had been too busy for maid service. The afternoon was no less active: an interview to promote her new collection of duets, "Jewels in the Crown" (J Records), and then a fitting for her latest designer dress. There were clothes, cotton puffs and a real-estate brochure on the floor, along with a new copy of Alan Greenspan's book "The Age of Turbulence," which she said she was planning to read. The television played silently; a laptop computer was open on a coffee table.Ms. Franklin may forever be associated with the 1960s, when she sang at civil rights rallies and gave the women's liberation movement an early theme song with "Respect." But now, at 65, she is more in control of her career than she has ever been. Like an increasing number of brand-name superstars, she has left the major-label recording companies. She is determined to tell her own story on screen. She's considering choices as unexpected as piano study at that classical citadel, the Juilliard School. She has let the end of a long romance inspire some new, autobiographical songs. And after years of traveling on land she is determined to fly again.Ms. Franklin was casually dressed. She wore a dark blue leather jacket over a gray sleeveless T-shirt and dark gray pants. She also wore a diamond-edged watch, a diamond-encrusted ring and a pearl necklace. (A visitor wasn't about to ask if the pearls were real.) The dress she was having fitted would be worn for an event with Fergie: not the Black Eyed Peas' singer, but Sarah, the Duchess of York.When Ms. Franklin was a little girl, her father, the Rev. C. L. Franklin, predicted she "would sing for kings and queens," she said. "Fortunately I've had the good fortune to do so. And presidents."She has been a star for four decades, in a celebrated path that led from her childhood performances at her father's church to those indelible '60s soul hits to '80s pop hits like "Freeway of Love" and, in 1998, an R&B resurgence with the gold album "A Rose Is Still a Rose."Within a few moments of conversation it was clear that she is also still a product of her upbringing: a Detroit preacher's daughter. She has fastidious manners — apologizing for the cough she picked up, she thought, by driving back to the city with the bus window open — and she spoke carefully but forthrightly, determined to leave no mistaken impressions. Her sentences were punctuated with the syncopated responses — "mm-hmm" — of someone who has attended a lifetime of gospel services.Ms. Franklin, widely hailed as one of the greatest singers (and sometimes simply the greatest singer) of her time, is confident about her music but determinedly modest. When pressed, she admitted, "I'm pretty good," then immediately knocked on wood."Jewels in the Crown: All-Star Duets With the Queen" is due for release on Nov. 13. It assembles collaborations she has recorded through the years, including new ones with John Legend and Fantasia. It's a shrewd anthology that brings together live performances and studio tracks culled from her own albums and from guest appearances with Frank Sinatra, George Michael and Eurythmics.  Few of her partners even come close to keeping up with her.Ms. Franklin revealed that the duets album completes her tenure with Clive Davis's labels, J Records and Arista, which signed her in 1980. "It's over," she said. "You might as well say it's over." (Mr. Davis, the chairman and chief executive of the BMG Label Group, said by telephone: "The lawyers say that there are cuts owed. I don't know that for a fact, I have not gotten into that. She and I, we've had a long relationship.")Ms. Franklin has already completed an album for her own label, Aretha's Records, called "Aretha: A Woman Falling Out of Love." It features songs she wrote and produced herself, rather than those by the established hit makers behind most of the material she recorded for Mr. Davis. "I made all of the selections," she said, "and I really, really was just thrilled with that, that I didn't have to ask anyone anything."Like other newly independent stars, from Radiohead to Joni Mitchell to the Eagles, Ms. Franklin is contemplating options outside major-label recording contracts. "You've got artists who have become very autonomous and are doing their own thing," she said. "It's a completely different ballgame now." She is still working out how to distribute "A Woman Falling Out of Love." It could be through a Web site, by mail order via an 800 number, through a small or large label, or all of them; she's negotiating.That album has an autobiographical core: Ms. Franklin chose the title "because it happens to be true," she said. "It was based on a relationship that I had, and it just didn't happen for a number of reasons, various reasons. It just didn't happen. But I was very much in love with the person." She didn't provide more details but said that one of the songs she wrote for the album, "How Long I've Been Waiting," was "directly related" to the failed romance.Much of Ms. Franklin's career since the 1970s has been an attempt to keep up with contemporary R&B and the vagaries of radio. "Put You Up on Game," the duet with Fantasia from "Jewels in the Crown," followed a typical process. The slangy song was written by the Underdogs, the producers behind the "Dreamgirls" soundtrack album. In it Fantasia is about to get married; Ms. Franklin urges her not to rush into it and chides, "Listen to the voice of experience!"Although Ms. Franklin was an unwed mother at 15 and has been divorced twice, she said the attitude was just part of the song. "I love marriage," she said. "I love the institution. But that's on the personal side. This is on the recorded side. That's the record, and that's the way the producer wants to hear it."The banter in "Put You Up on Game" is also an illusion. Fantasia sang rough vocals in Los Angeles, Ms. Franklin added hers in Detroit, Fantasia redid her part in Los Angeles, and Ms. Franklin did a final take in Detroit.The duet with John Legend, "What Y'All Came to Do," is a funk song in the lineage of James Brown and Prince, written by Mr. Legend and the producer Devo Springsteen. Mr. Legend produced the vocal sessions; he said Ms. Franklin worked fast. "She just goes in there and starts to experiment with the lyrics and the melody, and then creates her story, her interpretation of it," he said. "Soon, she says, 'John, I'm ready to go,' and she goes in there and sings it, and she just nails it. She was so on target and so powerful and so precise."To loosen up its recorded track, Mr. Legend used an old-fashioned trick: He recorded Ms. Franklin's entourage chatting and making party noises. And for his own part, he said, chuckling, "I wasn't going to compete with her."On "A Woman Falling Out of Love," Ms. Franklin doesn't try to cater to a young audience. "It's mainly directed at the boomers," she said. "The boomers have been given a very bad shake at this point as far as the music industry is concerned. There is very little music out there for them, and this is just not right.""You had a lot of stylists in the '60s and '70s," she continued. "We definitely, unquestionably were the great artists. We were and are the singers. We came to the stage with a presentation. And we knew and know our craft. You know, I've only heard a few singers" — she italicized the word — "in the generation that's happening now." She praised Beyoncé, Mr. Legend and Musiq Soulchild, but also decried the video-era emphasis on looks and instant stardom."If you're cute, you might be a star tomorrow," she said. "But coming up through the ranks of our generation you had to have it, whatever it is."Ms. Franklin does not read music: "I play by ear," she said. But she has long wanted to study classical piano. "I have been trying to get over to Juilliard for the last four years," she said. She aspires to the virtuosity of jazz pianists like Oscar Peterson, Dorothy Donegan and Herbie Hancock and has been looking closely at the technique of Vladimir Horowitz. "Those are the heavyweights, yes," she said. "But I realize that I do play a piano that maybe they couldn't play. So I uniquely do appreciate the piano that I do play."Another potential project is a film based on her 1999 autobiography, "Aretha: From These Roots." She turned down the one offer she received from Hollywood and is now talking with television networks. She is insisting on approval for cast and script. "The networks don't want to give this up, and I'm not going to give it up, so we're kind of at an impasse there," she said.This fall brought the release of previously unheard recordings. Atlantic/Rhino put out a two-CD set, "Rare & Unreleased Recordings From the Golden Reign of the Queen of Soul," including demos and outtakes from 1966 to 1973, and a concert CD, "Oh Me, Oh My: Aretha Live in Philly, 1972." Her youthful voice sounds lighter, but Ms. Franklin says she can still hit every high note, although her voice now is "a little heavier, a little more mature, yes."For a time she sang with a diminished range. Then she gave up smoking, and was also found to have acid reflux. "It's a million times better now. The quality, the range, the clarity, etc. Because now I've got the wrong things out of my diet. I was having Coca-Colas every day, chocolate, spicy foods. I just love hot sauce every day. And all of this stuff is treacherous when it comes to your voice."Ms. Franklin has not flown since 1983, when she took a two-engine plane through turbulence from Atlanta to Detroit. "That plane was dipsy-doodling all over the place," she recalled, and the prospect of flying has given her anxiety attacks ever since. But she is eager to go to Paris, to Egypt and especially to the Middle East, "to see all the places that Jesus walked," she said. "I am going to fly before it's all over again," she vowed. "Even if it's just one more time."Meanwhile she rides her custom bus from gig to gig, tearing into her hits with a voice that holds the church and the blues, jazz and opera, heartbreak and sensuality and exaltation. Her band has arrangements, but the players have to pay constant attention; night after night she improvises, singing by instinct and inspiration. "I don't want to analyze it," she said. "I've never thought about it. Just never thought about it. And I don't think I will."Marc-André Hamelin has built a devoted audience by performing difficult piano music, both recent and arcane, demonstrating a solid, often dazzling technique, as well as a thoughtful musicality that reveals the poetry within the virtuosic glare. At his recital on Sunday afternoon at the Rose Theater, he did something different. Leaving his more peculiar specialties aside, he played a program of familiar works, starting with a crisply articulated, if slightly puzzling, account of Haydn's Sonata in B minor (Hob. XVI: 32).What the reading had going for it was a dynamic suppleness that drew the music out of the realm of Haydn's fortepiano without pulling it too far into the 19th century. Even in the stormy finale, which points toward music Beethoven would be writing 25 years later (he was a child when Haydn wrote this work, around 1776), Mr. Hamelin deferred to the limits of Haydn's sound world but pushed against them all the same. This fluidity did not extend to rhythm: at times the phrasing seemed squarer and more rigid than it needed to be.That objection vanished in Chopin's B minor Sonata (Op. 58), to which Mr. Hamelin applied a rubato that, while by no means extreme, let the music breathe naturally in the most lyrical sections and catch fire when the score demanded drama, volume, rich sonorities and overt finger power, as in the finale.In Debussy's Préludes, Book II, Mr. Hamelin maneuvered mostly around the gentler side of his expressive range. Even at muted,  sometimes whispered, dynamics, he was at no loss for coloristic variety. He evoked the atmospheric, mysterious gauziness in "Feuilles Mortes" and the delicate, dark-hued textures of "La Terrace des Audiences du Clair de Lune" with a watercolorist's subtlety.But Mr. Hamelin was at his best when Debussy set his mood studies aside and suggested more vivid imagery. He captured both the Spanish inspiration and the French sensibility of "La Puerta del Vino" and gave "Bruyères" a bluesy edge, certainly a novel touch."General Lavine  —  Eccentric" and "Hommage à Samuel Pickwick, Esq., P.P.M.P.C." were characterized in bold, sharp strokes and with understated but effective humor. And he played the cascading "Feux D'Artifice" as the technical showpiece it is.For his encore he returned to his home turf, pulling out a quirky, obscure showpiece, Charles Trenet's "En Avril à Paris" in an arrangement by the pianist Alexis Weissenberg. This seems to be a favorite of Mr. Hamelin's at the moment: he also played it at the International Keyboard Institute & Festival at Mannes College the New School for Music in July.SOME time in 1980, during the five months that the grim and glorious musical "Sweeney Todd" played the Theater Royal Drury Lane, a California college student visiting London bought a ticket. And another and another and another.Tim Burton, obsessive watcher of horror movies and a worshiper of Vincent Price,  had discovered "The Demon Barber of Fleet Street," not to mention Stephen Sondheim. And after stewing in his imagination on and off for some 25 years, that encounter has been channeled into Mr. Burton's new film version, scheduled to arrive Dec. 21, with Johnny Depp as Sweeney, Helena Bonham Carter as Mrs. Lovett and the smoke-blackened streets of Victorian London as the setting for their danse macabre.Any way you slice it, it's a gamble.Transferring a stage work to the screen is always dodgy; for musicals, so dependent on the artificial world of the proscenium, the risks are multiplied. To further complicate things Mr. Burton entrusted the lead roles in this operatic, difficult-to-sing work, which scooped up no less than eight Tony Awards in 1979, to two movie stars whose vocal abilities, like those of all but one of the supporting players, were untested. (They include  Sacha Baron Cohen, as the competing barber Pirelli.)There's also the little matter of the R-rated plot, which revels in the throat-cutting, meat-chopping proclivities of a serial killer whose victims are funneled from a trick barber's chair into a giant meat grinder, processed and then baked into tasty little meat pies by his cooperative landlady.Even less bloody shows by Mr. Sondheim have not been served well by the movies. Some — "Pacific Overtures," say,  "Sunday in the Park With George" or "Assassins"— are so intrinsically theatrical in conception that they seem virtually unfilmable. Of the others for which he has also written both music and lyrics, only two, "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum" (1966) and "A Little Night Music" (1978), had made it to celluloid (and not very happily) before Mr. Burton tackled "Sweeney.""Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street" may seem a more likely candidate for film success, given its origins in melodrama and Grand Guignol,  the slasher movies of the 19th century. Still, "It took courage and a certain lunatic leap of faith to think we could really bring this wild beast to the screen," the screenwriter, John Logan, said via e-mail.Mr. Burton was not making films when he first saw "Sweeney Todd." But he was struck, he recalled in a recent telephone interview, by how cinematic it was. Propelled by Mr. Sondheim's extensive underscoring, Harold Prince's production flowed from scene to scene within a cavernous metal cage, using revolving set pieces housing Mrs. Lovett's pie shop, Sweeney's tonsorial establishment and the show's other locations. When Mr. Burton's film career took off, in the late '80s, he approached Mr. Sondheim about a film ."I said fine," Mr. Sondheim said by telephone recently. "Then he went off and did other things."Mr. Burton explained, "You get sort of sidetracked."  But, he said, it was all for the best. "Back then, I didn't really know Johnny." And he hadn't yet met Ms. Bonham Carter, with whom he now lives.  (They are expecting their second child next month.)Around five years ago, he said, he stumbled on an old drawing he had made of Sweeney Todd and Mrs. Lovett. To his surprise, "they kind of looked like Johnny and Helena." The wheels began to turn. "Those kinds of things mean something to me," Mr. Burton said. "Johnny had gotten to the point where he was the right age. There was something about it that felt really right, even though I didn't know if he could sing."He gave Mr. Depp the album and asked, "Would you ever think about doing something like this?" He  said Mr. Depp listened and responded, "I may sound like a strangled cat." Mr. Burton took that as a yes. "If he didn't think he could do it, he would have said no."Mr. Burton and Mr. Depp had already created a gallery of memorable weirdos, starting in 1990 with the unfortunate adolescent of "Edward Scissorhands" and continuing with the transvestite film director at the center of "Ed Wood" and the oddly epicene Willy Wonka in "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory." Mr. Depp's Sweeney isn't a regular guy either. With a Susan Sontag patch of white streaking his pompadour, ghostly skin and distraught eyes, this Sweeney is both wretched and mad. "He needed to have a look that would say a lot about what he'd been through," Mr. Depp said by telephone.What he'd been through, what turned him into a revenge machine, was a trumped-up conviction that enabled an evil judge (played by Alan Rickman) to destroy his family. Mr. Burton's take on the material had been formed when he'd seen the London production. "I always felt it was like a silent movie with music in it — those old black and white horror movies."He talked with Mr. Depp, also a silents fan, about the approach; their touchstones were Lon Chaney, Boris Karloff, Bela Lugosi and Peter Lorre, especially, Mr. Depp said, Lorre's "creepy but sympathetic" surgeon in the 1935 thriller "Mad Love."  The influence of silent film permeates the movie, from the chiaroscuro lighting to the we-had-faces close-ups. "Johnny in front of his victims with the razor is almost like a ballet dancer, dancing around them," said  Richard D. Zanuck, a producer.Mr. Burton  asked the designer,  Dante Ferretti,  to recreate not Victorian London but  horror-movie London. Mr. Ferretti, who began his career working with Fellini, first visited the relevant neighborhoods around Fleet Street, he said. "Then we did it a little bit more frightening, more dark, more interesting."Initially Mr. Burton had planned to make the film with few sets and lots of computerized effects. He ended up doing just the opposite. "This is a musical," he said. "Having sets helps you, it helps the actors, it helps the crew get into the right frame of mind. Just having people singing in front of a green screen seemed more disconnected."Mr. Depp began performing in rock bands as a teenager. But "never, ever, did I ever want to sing," he insisted. "Singers always got too much attention. I was always happier playing my guitar in the dark."The plan was for him to work with a vocal coach, "do the scales and all that stuff." But "it started to dawn on me that I knew what Sweeney sounded like before, and I knew that it was up to me to go far away from that," he said. "He needed to be, for lack of a better word, slightly more punk rock."He studied the songs as he was filming the third installment of the "Pirates of the Caribbean" series in Palmdale, Calif. — "two hours to work and two hours back listening constantly, learning the melodies in the car."Mike Higham, the film's music producer, said that isn't quite as easy as it sounds. "With Stephen's music the melodies don't roll off the tongue," he said. "They run around the scale. It's hard for actors to get into the pockets of where the music really is."Part of Mr. Higham's job was cutting the music to fit the film, which follows closely the contours of the original show. Mr. Sondheim summed up the operative principle: "In the theater you can sing for three or four minutes even though there's nothing happening. On film you want to keep things moving."Some songs, including the show's framing number, "The Ballad of Sweeney Todd," were cut. Others, like "Green Finch and Linnet Bird" and "God, That's Good!" were shortened. Mr. Higham sent his changes to Mr. Sondheim as MP3 files. "Then he might say, 'That's O.K.,' or 'Change that F sharp to a B flat,'" Mr. Higham said.Mr. Sondheim's longtime orchestrater, Jonathan Tunick, augmented the orchestra from 27 musicians in the original Broadway production to 78, "to get the big cinematic sound Tim was after," Mr. Higham said.Like Mr. Ferretti and Mr. Depp, Mr. Higham noted how economically Mr. Burton conveyed his thoughts. "He can say three words, and he completely sums up what his vision is," he said. "You get those three words, and you go." For "Sweeney," Mr. Higham said, Mr. Burton's words were, "I want the music almost not to stop."While Mr. Depp and the rest of the cast were finding their way into the music, Mr. Burton was finding his way into the gore. "He had a very clear plan that he wanted to lift that up into a surreal, almost 'Kill Bill' kind of stylization,"  Mr.  Zanuck said.  "We had done tests and experiments with the neck slashing, with the blood popping out. I remember saying to Tim, 'My god, do we dare do this?' "The results worked, at least according to Mr. Depp. The red liquid latex  his razor sent spurting from the necks of Sweeney's victims during the 50-day shoot last winter was, well, thicker than water. "You see it, you feel it, you hear it," he said. "It wasn't subtle."When you read a historical mystery by Jason Goodwin, you take a magic carpet ride to the most exotic place on earth. Like its predecessor, "The Janissary Tree," winner of the Mystery Writers of America's 2007 Edgar Award for best novel, THE SNAKE STONE (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25) is set in 19th-century Istanbul during the reign of Sultan Mahmut II and features the subtle sleuthing of Yashim Togalu, a eunuch with eyes and ears exquisitely attuned to the cacophony of life in his cosmopolitan world. But with the sultan on his deathbed after a 30-year reign, a deep unease has settled over the city, now poised uncertainly for a momentous historical shift.In such a setting, sudden violence is just part of the local color. Goodwin obliges with deadly assaults on a local vegetable seller, an old Greek book dealer, an Albanian waterman, a Jewish moneylender and, most interestingly, a French archaeologist whose search for treasure from an earlier era dramatizes the author's view of Istanbul as a city entwined in its own history. Like the Serpent Column in the Hippodrome, the origins of this writhing coil of humanity go back to before the Ottoman Conquest, even before the beginnings of the Byzantine Empire and Greek Constantinople. While Yashim acknowledges that "a city endures which also grows, forever adding new identities to the old," he finds himself digging deeper into the past to understand the murderous impulses of people who would reverse history to stunt such growth.The needless complications of the plot — which sees evil intent in everything from the journals of a learned Greek society to the induction rites of the watermen's guild — actually work in its favor by evoking the chaos of life in the ancient city that straddles the Golden Horn. Goodwin presents this in sumptuous detail, in scenes that take Yashim from the social heights of Topkapi Palace to the dregs of the docks, with a fragrant side trip into the spice market at the Grand Bazaar, source of the ingredients for the elaborate Ottoman dishes he serves his eccentric friend, Stanislaw Palewski, an ambassador of the now-defunct nation of Poland. Their erudite table talk is always lively, as are the conversations Yashim initiates with anyone who has a story to tell. These exchanges don't always have anything to do with the plot, but they provide the nicest kind of traveling music for that magic carpet ride.You couldn't ask for a more gracious introduction to the exotic world of Imperial Japan than the stately historical novels of I. J. Parker. Designed around an 11th-century provincial detective named Sugawara Akitada, these mysteries are saturated with details about the social milieu in which each investigation is set. ISLAND OF EXILES (Penguin, paper, $14) finds Akitada undercover on Sado Island, known for the penal colony that supplies slave labor for the local silver mines. It takes him a dangerously long time to discover who poisoned the colony's highest-ranking prisoner — the emperor's treasonous half-brother — and then framed the governor's son for the crime. But in disguise as a convicted murderer, Akitada is quick to learn the value of a man's life in a place where "a human being is nothing but a candle in the wind."Miyuki Miyabe's new mystery, THE DEVIL'S WHISPER (Kodansha, $24.95), illustrates some modern-day refinements on the punishments doled out to criminals in ancient Japan. When a Tokyo taxi driver is jailed after hitting and killing a woman with his cab, public opinion rapidly turns against his family. The persecution of a 16-year-old nephew living with the family is especially ugly; the boy is already being tormented at school because his father disappeared from his government job after embezzling public money. Miyabe's forte is suspense, and here it's built around the strange behavior of young women being driven to suicide. But the peculiar fascination of the story lies in its acute observations of the way masochistic shame and guilt play into the social conformity so inhibiting to the Japanese identity.Archer Mayor goes out of his way in CHAT (Grand Central, $24.99) to impress us with the ruggedness of native Vermonters. His series hero, Joe Gunther of the Vermont Bureau of Investigation, thinks the mountain topography and long, snowy winters have something to do with nurturing a local character at once "hardy, independent, self-sufficient and sometimes a little cranky." And when his brother and their invalid mother struggle back to health after a suspicious car crash, Joe has new respect for Yankee grit. But even the toughest of his taciturn neighbors has a soft spot when it comes to family, a theme Mayor delicately probes after the murders of two strangers open parental eyes to the dangers awaiting children in Internet chat rooms. It's cases like this that make Vermont winters seem longer and colder.Fair warning to Spenser fans: Robert B. Parker's normally fun-loving private eye sits on his mitts and turns unusually introspective in his latest adventure, NOW AND THEN (Putnam, $25.95), a condition brought on when he identifies too closely with a client. Not only is Dennis Doherty betrayed by his wife in a way that compromises his job with the F.B.I., but the poor guy is also murdered. And so is his adulterous wife, duped by her treacherous lover. This is all too much for Spenser, who gets drunk and broods about the time his beloved Susan was also lured away by a sinister lover. "Doherty has to matter to someone," he tells her, meaning it's time to settle his own scores. When that's done, maybe he and Susan can have a serious talk about the future.Lindsay Elizabeth Schmidt and Jeremy Alexander Beard were married yesterday at St. Bartholomew's Church in New York. The Rev. Elizabeth Garnsey, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.Mrs. Beard, 30, is a manager for displays, windows and other visual merchandising at the Madison Avenue branch of Talbots. She graduated magna cum laude from Wellesley.She is the daughter of Elizabeth K. Schmidt and Carl B. Schmidt of Baltimore. Her father is a music professor at Towson University and an authority on French classical music. He is a board member of the Handel Choir of Baltimore. Until 1995, her mother was the assistant director of the Rodney L. White Center for Financial Research at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.Mr. Beard, 36, works in New York as a director of commercial real estate securitization for Deutsche Bank, helping to create and sell pools of real estate loans for investors. He graduated from Connecticut College.He is the son of Judith-Anne Beard and Alexander H. Beard of New York. His mother served on the vestry of St. Bartholomew's until 1994, and until 2002 was the president of the Volunteer Council of the New York Philharmonic. His father is an owner of Beard Enterprises, a holding company in New York whose primary investment is in a textile manufacturer in Canada.POPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.AVENGED SEVENFOLD (Wednesday) Bridging a gap between heavy metal and emo that nobody asked to be bridged, this group from Orange County, Calif., hints at Iron Maiden and early Metallica with machine-gun rhythms, bumblebee guitar solos and anthemic vocals. With Black Tide, the Confession and Operator. At 7:30 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; $32. (Ben Sisario)BATTLES, WHITE WILLIAMS (Tuesday) Call it post-rock, call it math-rock — it doesn't matter. The mostly instrumental New York band Battles has perfected a sinewy guitar minimalism that is as cerebral as it is visceral. White Williams, led by the 24-year-old Joe Williams, plays sleek neo-new wave that in its perpetual-motion grooves has touches of Afro-pop and 1970s German drone. At 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $20. (Sisario) BON JOVI (Friday and Saturday) Here it is: the last 2 of 10 shows at a new theater in Bon Jovi's native New Jersey. Opinion might be split, but most hometown fans probably enjoyed the group's recent foray into country music; certainly Bon Jovi is the only band around that could book for these shows both the self-proclaimed "redneck woman" Gretchen Wilson, as it did last weekend, and the punk-pop band All-American Rejects, opening for it on Friday and Saturday. At 7:30 p.m., Prudential Center, 165 Mulberry Street, Newark, (973) 854-8760, prucenter.com; $49.50 to $303. (Kelefa Sanneh)CLAP YOUR HANDS SAY YEAH (Tuesday and Wednesday) In an indie-rock world that moves at the speed of blog, Clap Your Hands Say Yeah is the equivalent of classic rock: The band was the grass-roots success story of 2005, selling tens of thousands of albums of  Talking Heads-esque nerd-funk without  a record company. With Quentin Stoltzfus. Tuesday at 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. Wednesday at 8 p.m., Studio B, 259 Banker Street, between Meserole Avenue and Calyer Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 389-1880, clubstudiob.com; $15. (Sisario)THE CULT (Friday) Ian Astbury got a chance to play his hero when he took Jim Morrison's place in the touring group that includes two former members of the Doors. (Various lawsuits forbid them from using the name of their old band.) He never quite filled those shoes, but he's now back where he belongs, as a full-throated Morrison ringer in his long-running metal-psychedelic-goth band, the Cult. With Action Action. At 8 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; $44.50. (Sisario)DASHBOARD CONFESSIONAL (Wednesday) Reaching out a tattooed arm to every teenage soul, Chris Carrabba, the 32-year-old singer-songwriter who performs as Dashboard Confessional, has become the elder statesman of  emo with yearning melodies and just-hang-in-there themes. This fall Mr. Carrabba is on a  solo tour, the ideal way to see him — at his best his songs are perfect crowd-rousing oratory. With Augustana and John Ralston. At 8 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171;  sold out. (Sisario)DASTAN ENSEMBLE WITH SALAR AGHILI (Saturday) The Dastan Ensemble plays classical Persian music: a tradition that builds from meditative melodies to dazzling virtuosity. With just hand drums, lutes and a guest singer — here Salar Aghili, born in Tehran in 1977 — the Dastan is lean and nimble as it traces the music's improvisatory arcs. At 8 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $30 and $35. (Jon Pareles)JONATHAN DAVIS (Tuesday) Korn is the new Allman Brothers, on the road forever. Still, its leader, Mr. Davis, has found time for an acoustic tour playing Korn rarities as well as songs he wrote for the 2002 film "Queen of the Damned." At 7 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; $39.50. (Sisario)DR. DOG (Friday) Dr. Dog, from Philadelphia, takes a jam-band approach to high-energy rhapsodies that recall "Abbey Road"-era Beatles. With Delta Spirit and Emily Lacy. At 8:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $16. (Sisario)KEVIN DREW (Wednesday) One benefit of calling your band a collective is that its name can be invoked for brand identification whenever any member does anything. Thus Mr. Drew's concert in support of his solo album "Spirit If ..." (Arts & Crafts) is billed as "The Broken Social Scene Plays," even though his band will also include members of three other groups. Branding is good business, as rappers have long known. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $25. (Sisario)DURAN DURAN (Friday, Saturday, Monday and Tuesday) Here it is: the last 4 of 10 shows in Duran Duran's latest comeback attempt. This one arrives with some drama. The band's longtime guitarist, Andy Taylor, quit in the midst of the recording sessions for its new album, "Red Carpet Massacre" (Epic), just as Timbaland and his protégé Danja were coming in to produce it. At 8 p.m., Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com; $76.50 to $151.50. (Sisario)ELECTRIC SIX (Thursday) Electric Six looks fondly back to the early 1980s merger of rock guitars, disco beats and electro blips, with arch and gleefully overblown songs about dancing and romance, like "Danger! High Voltage" and "Nuclear War" ("on the dance floor"). With the Willowz and Golden Dogs. At 9 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $18 in advance, $20 at the door. (Pareles)FALL OUT BOY, GYM CLASS HEROES, PLAIN WHITE T'S, CUTE IS WHAT WE AIM FOR (Wednesday) The average age for this emopalooza at Madison Square Garden should be the lowest there since the Wiggles. Fall Out Boy, the genre's standard-bearer — snarky, jumpy, self-aware — shares a bill with Gym Class Heroes, who had a Top 10 hit with a surprisingly straight-faced love song, "Cupid's Chokehold" ("She's got porcelain skin/Of course she's a 10/And now she's even got her own song"); Plain White T's, bland as rockers but, well, still bland (though highly successful) as balladeers; and the dress-up gang Cute Is What We Aim For. At 7 p.m., (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $39.75. (Sisario)FINAL FANTASY (Saturday and Sunday) Owen Pallett, who writes the string arrangements for the Arcade Fire, creates nervous universes in miniature as Final Fantasy, looping ribbons of violin around his quavering voice. He named his project after a video game, which he has described in terms that suit the music as well: "ridiculously overwrought and convoluted emotionally." With Cadence Weapon and Nifty. Saturday at 10 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $10. Sunday at 7 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $13. (Sisario)JAY-Z (Sunday) He has set the bar awfully high for these "retirement"-era shows. Four years ago was the farewell at Madison Square Garden, such a big deal it became the subject of a big-deal documentary. Then came the epochal "I Declare War" concert, and last year he celebrated the 10th anniversary of his debut with a "Hustlers Symphony Orchestra" at Radio City. Even with a new album, "American Gangster" (Island Def Jam), how long can Jay-Z keep taking bows? At 8:30 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; sold out. (Sisario)B. B. KING (Monday and Tuesday) On a good night B. B. King and his latest guitar called Lucille can summon all the tribulation and joy and resilience of the blues. With Ryan Shaw on Monday and Alexis P. Suter on Tuesday. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $125. (Pareles)PHIL LESH AND FRIENDS (Friday through Sunday) Here it is: the last three of nine concerts by Phil Lesh, the bassist for the Grateful Dead, and the newest incarnation of his occasional, Dead-covering band. This one features Jackie Greene, Larry Campbell, John Molo and Steve Molitz. At 8 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; $55 (sold out Friday and Saturday). (Sisario)SHELBY LYNNE (Thursday) A Nashville refugee, Ms. Lynne has sometimes strayed from the rich, honest country-soul that is her great strength. But there's wonderful news: Her next album, to be released in February, will be mostly songs that Dusty Springfield sang, which should take Ms. Lynne back to the territory that made her breakthrough album, "I Am Shelby Lynne," so marvelous. She gives a preview of it at the Hiro Ballroom. At 7 p.m., 371 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 260-4700, bowerypresents.com; $25. (Sisario)MALAJUBE (Thursday) In seductively surreal songs performed in French, this Montreal five-piece riffles through decades of influence, from happy Beatles pop to rap and grunge. With Die Romantik and the Epochs. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $13. (Sisario)DAVE MATTHEWS BAND (Tuesday) The only figure to transcend the jam-band subculture and become a genuine star, Dave Matthews has put a round, friendly face on a repertory of meandering, technically complex tunes, just as Jerry Garcia did in the Grateful Dead. (But would the Dead ever have sung "Mommy, come quick/The dreaming tree has died"?) At 7 p.m., Izod Center (formerly the Continental Airlines Arena), East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, meadowlands.com; $65. (Sisario)MELT-BANANA (Sunday) The hiccups of guitar and squeals of vocals fly by so fast in the hyperactive music of Melt-Banana, from Japan, that it seems a minor miracle that so many playful pop melodies survive. With Vaz and the Netherlands. At 7 p.m., Europa, 98 Meserole Avenue, at Manhattan Avenue, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 383-5723, europaclub.com; $12. (Sisario)MENOMENA, ILLINOIS (Saturday) Menomena, from Portland, Ore., uses a homemade computer program to write songs, resulting in shufflings and reshufflings that keep otherwise standard indie-arty elements — meandering piano, sensual electronics, melancholy vocals — sounding fresh. Illinois, a band from Pennsylvania, flaunts a banjo in rowdy songs that mingle Merseybeat rock, skiffle and punky absurdism. At 6:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $17. (Sisario)MOTION CITY SOUNDTRACK (Friday) This Minneapolis power-pop band is so forthright about its lollipop-sweet side that for its new album, "Even If It Kills Me" (Epitaph), it recorded with Adam Schlesinger of Fountains of Wayne and Ric Ocasek of the Cars. If nothing else, the record shows what kind of Frankenstein results from Motion City Soundtrack's bouncy guitars, the Cars' keyboard hooks and Fountains of Wayne's pop classicism. (It can be a pretty catchy Frankenstein.) With Mae, Anberlin and Metro Station. At 6:45 p.m., Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, roselandballroom.com; $24. (Sisario)MUM (Friday and Saturday) This weekend's installment of the Wordless Music Series, where free spirits from the fringes of pop and the classical world share a stage — although the arrangement is usually that a rock-ish band graciously allows some chamber music as an opening act — is Mum, an Icelandic group whose mix of staticky electronics and kitchen-sink instrumentation is both homey and abstract. On Friday Mum plays a "quiet" show at the Church of St. Paul the Apostle, and on Saturday a regular-volume set at the New York Society for Ethical Culture. Come early for Bach and Ligeti. Friday at 8 p.m., Columbus Avenue at 60th Street; Saturday at 8 p.m.,  2 West 64th Street, Manhattan; wordlessmusic.org; $20. (Sisario)PIPETTES, NICOLE ATKINS (Monday) The most lovable kind of retro act, the Pipettes are three young British women who dress in identical polka dots and mimic '60s girl groups in harmonies that are sassy but strictly approximate. Nicole Atkins, from Neptune, N.J., is a talented fantasist, spinning prom-night-beautiful piano ballads with a moody, cinematic sweep. After many delays, her fine debut album, "Neptune City" (Columbia), has finally been released.  At 8 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171;  $18.50. (Sisario)JOSH RITTER (Friday) Mr. Ritter's guileless, boy-next-door voice belies the depth and ambition of his songs, whether he is confessing a simple crush or following his thoughts on a long, Whitmanesque incantation. With Eric Bachmann. At 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Sisario)ROSE HILL DRIVE (Friday) Like the blues-rock power trios of yore, Rose Hill Drive, from Boulder, Colo., puts all its attention to bruising, jammable riffs, leaving the edges deliberately rough. With Young Lords, Children of the Unicorn and Super 400. At 9 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171;  $18. (Sisario)SIGHTINGS (Friday) One of New York's best noisemakers, Sightings builds sonic dungeons out of deep, burbling bass and disorienting sheets of guitar. With Vizusa, Metalux and a "special guest" who might very well be the party-metal madman Andrew W. K. At 8 p.m., Cake Shop, 152 Ludlow Street, between Stanton and Rivington Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0036, cake-shop.com; $7. (Sisario)VAN HALEN (Tuesday) Proving once and for all that when it comes to rock mega-reunions, all the public squabbling, rehab interruptions and phony camaraderie don't mean a thing, as long as the singer kicks high, the guitarist pulls off those Paganini-in-spandex riffs, and the crowds roar. At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; sold out. (Sisario)
