Max Roach was remembered at his funeral not just as a brilliant drummer who helped bring about radical changes in American music, but also as a committed activist who worked hard to bring about radical changes in American society.Mr. Roach "used his music as an instrument of our struggle," the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III of Abyssinian Baptist Church said in eulogizing Mr. Roach, who died on Aug. 16 at the age of 83. Mr. Roach's funeral, held yesterday morning at Riverside Church in Morningside Heights, drew a capacity crowd of friends, admirers and fellow musicians.Former President Bill Clinton, in a statement read by Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, praised Mr. Roach as "one of the first jazz musicians to align his craft with the goals of the civil rights movement."But Mr. Roach's musical contributions were not neglected. The writer Amiri Baraka, while noting that the music Mr. Roach and the singer Abbey Lincoln made in the 1960s was "part of the liberation movement," also read a poem that included a long list of musicians who owed Mr. Roach an artistic debt. Bill Cosby said that he owed Mr. Roach a different kind of debt — and that Mr. Roach had owed him one, too."Why I became a comedian is because of Max Roach," he said. "I wanted to be a drummer."As a young jazz fan in Philadelphia, Mr. Cosby explained, he tried to teach himself to play drums by copying records and watching the great jazz drummers in action. But when  he first saw Mr. Roach, he said,  he was awed by his virtuosity and realized that "there were no tricks, nothing I could take."Shortly thereafter, Mr. Cosby told the crowd, he decided that the rudimentary drum kit for which he had paid $75 was not for him. And, he added, when he finally met Mr. Roach some years later, the first thing he said to him was, "You owe me $75."As befits a memorial for a man recognized as one of the architects of modern jazz, music played an important part in the service. The vocalist Cassandra Wilson, the pianists Randy Weston and Billy Taylor, and the saxophonist Jimmy Heath were among those who performed.Mr. Heath performed an unaccompanied improvisation on a song whose title encapsulated what many of the speakers said about Mr. Roach: "There Will Never Be Another You."LONDONTHE Edinburgh Festival may be one of the world's great arts fixtures, but its Fringe festival has always operated like a national freak show, opening nonjudgmental arms to anything that could be said to pass as entertainment. Proust on Rollerblades, Ibsen in drag, your favorite Wagner moments whistled by a chorus in gorilla suits: old-timers will have seen and usually passed by it all. And being passed by is the shared experience of Fringe events. They tend to play obscurely, in church halls and basement rooms to audiences of 16, barely noticed, instantly forgotten.That said, the Fringe does have its star acts that either get seized on by TV talent scouts or at least acquire cult status and return year after year. One of the most spectacular of the cult items, not quite ready for prime time but expectant, will be playing Edinburgh's sizable Canongate Church next Sunday.  All seats are sold, and lines for returns will undoubtedly stretch around the block.This hottest of hot tickets is an Edinburgh band called the Really Terrible Orchestra. And were you to ask what it does, the answer would be that with true Scottish candor it lives up to its name, or rather down to it: an orchestra that plays terribly."We are indeed quite bad," the principal bassoonist admitted. The standard varies from player to player, he added, noting that he himself had passed Grade IV, the British examination level normally taken by schoolchildren around age 12."But I have trouble with C sharps — a design fault of the instrument, I think — which means I don't play them," he said. "And some of our members are really very challenged. We have one dire cellist who has the names of the strings written on his bridge. Otherwise he can't remember what they are."The fascinating thing about the Really Terrible Orchestra, though, is that its appalling players are in fact eminent in other walks of life. They are politicians, bankers, judges, surgeons, senior academics. And the principal bassoonist who doesn't play C sharps happens to be the polymath law professor and best-selling writer Alexander McCall Smith, the author of (among many other things) the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency books, which are now being filmed for international release.A genial, donnish figure who lives in the most genteel of Edinburgh suburbs and now ranks among the most popular literary figures in Britain, Mr. McCall Smith was one of the founders of the orchestra eight years ago. He likes to say that it was set up with no other reason than to give hopeless amateurs a chance."There were a number of us with children in school orchestras who fantasized about being in an orchestra ourselves," he said. "And as there was no likelihood of ever being accepted into an existing ensemble, we decided to create our own. There's a concept of asylum in the R.T.O. It's therapy."It's also something that could easily have turned into a standard amateur ensemble like a thousand others. But where standard amateurs may be incidentally bad, the Really Terrible Orchestra is fundamentally bad. Its random ability to play the right notes at the right time, or at all, is part of what the orchestra chairman, the lousy clarinetist Peter Stevenson, calls "our entertainment package.""We knew there was no market for a good amateur orchestra, because a poor professional one would always be better," Mr. Stevenson said. "But there is a market for the R.T.O. And that our concerts sell out in advance, to audiences who just love to hear us scrape through easy arrangements of Bach or the last 40 bars of the '1812' Overture — the rest is far too difficult — is proof. There's always thunderous applause, especially if we've got lost in something and ground to a halt. Always a standing ovation. And it's not just because we have our friends and family in the audience. People genuinely thrill to it."All of which raises the question: Why? Why do people love bad art? Why is there a cult museum near  Boston proudly dedicated "to bringing the worst of art to the widest of audiences"? And why does history afford a special place for the creatively incompetent, from poets like William McGonagall (the immortal versifier of "The Tay Bridge Disaster") to singers like Florence Foster Jenkins (whose inability to sing packed Carnegie Hall) and, more recently, the "American Idol" reject William Hung (whose inability to do anything of artistic note has turned him into a celebrity)? Why, in fact, is so much latter-day TV obsessed with celebrating cultural failure?One answer is that it's a variant on classic banana-skin comedy; or, as Mr. McCall Smith prefers, "simple schadenfreude, a pleasure in the misfortune of others that's all the sweeter with the R.T.O. because so many of us are otherwise well established in our lives.""Our clarinetist chairman is a typical example," he added, "tremendously successful in investment banking, reached the very top. But now he's at the very bottom of the orchestral ladder and, alas, will probably stay round about that level."But there's another reason, surely, for the cult of bad art, and it has to do with liberation: the anarchic pleasure of disorder, the repudiation of established rules of judgment. Bad art is an invitation to escape the formal boundaries of adulthood and be a child, delighting in the rude and raw.In this respect the Really Terrible Orchestra has interesting precedents. Back in the 1960s a maverick figure of the British musical avant-garde, Cornelius Cardew, created what he called the Scratch Orchestra; like the Terrible, it was an ensemble of players who couldn't play,  or at least couldn't play the particular instruments they had selected for Scratch Orchestra Concerts, a proviso that allowed the involvement of bona fide musicians like Michael Nyman and Brian Eno.For some, especially the newspapers, the Scratch Orchestra was just a grand joke; and much was made of its intuitive response to the "music" specially composed for it by Mr. Cardew, which was written representationally, not with notes and staffs but with pictures and poems.For Mr. Cardew and company, however, it was no joke. There was a philosophical basis to it all, founded in the work of John Cage, who had declared that there was "no room for the policeman in art." The Scratch Orchestra had profoundly humanist objectives concerning music as process rather than product, and with them came a sociopolitical agenda: initially a broad and fairly friendly swipe at cultural elitism but fossilizing into a hard-line Marxist-Leninist debate that hijacked the whole venture and brought it to a messy end.But before it died, the Scratch Orchestra spawned a 1970s offspring in the Portsmouth Sinfonia, which involved some of the same personnel, including Mr. Nyman and Mr. Eno. Again there was an underlying philosophy; and it was eulogized in serious terms, not least by Mr. Nyman, who played the cello in shambolic performances of Grieg's "In the Hall of the Mountain King" and compared the results to Charles Ives. "The combination of everybody's individual errors," Mr. Nyman wrote, "built a musical structure that was incomparable."Mr. Eno, who played clarinet in the Sinfonia and produced its early recordings, similarly declared that what you heard in its performances was "a number of approximations of how the piece should be played," and that they collectively amounted to beautiful music.But for most of its audience — which was considerable, thanks to discs like "Portsmouth Sinfonia Plays the Popular Classics" and concerts in places the size of the Albert Hall — the joys of the Sinfonia were less elevated. Enthusiasts cherished the sagging intonation, the dubious conductors (one of whom managed unintentionally to conduct the "Blue Danube" waltz in 4/4) and such priceless occasions as when the soloist in Tchaikovsky's B-flat minor Piano Concerto failed to turn up, and the orchestra played it without her,  transposed down to A minor because, as a spokesman explained, "sharps and flats tend to unnerve us."Perhaps the height of the Sinfonia's acclaim came when it was threatened with an injunction by the publishers of Richard Strauss on the ground that its performances of "Also Sprach Zarathustra" were rearranged without permission. The case never reached court, to the chagrin of the Sinfonia's manager, who replied that the music had not been rearranged: "It's just that we don't play it very well."That is exactly the kind of response one could imagine coming from Alexander McCall Smith, were any publisher foolish enough to take a similar line with the Really Terrible Orchestra. There is an undeniable, and entirely mischievous, vagueness about  its objectives, and it falls in line with the unclear intentions behind so much of the bad art of history. To what extent were the perpetrators in on their own joke? And to what extent was their badness deliberate?William McGonagall is generally thought to have had genuine belief in his own worth as a poet; Florence Foster Jenkins, likewise as a singer. They weren't trying to be awful. How much, you might fairly ask, is the Really Terrible Orchestra trying to stink?"Not at all," Peter Stevenson insisted, sounding slightly hurt when I asked to attend an orchestra rehearsal if it had such things."It's unkind of you to think we don't rehearse," he said, "because we do. And some of us even take lessons, as I am at the moment, from a serious teacher. I can't pretend that no one ever plays deliberately badly. It's usually the trumpets, and they make me angry when they do. But for the rest of us, we are actually doing our best. And that's the tension in which we operate. On the one hand, we'd like to get better. On the other, we know we won't."Locked in this quandary the Really Terrible Orchestra has otherwise progressed from strength to strength. It made what Mr. McCall Smith called its "first world tour" to Pittenweem  in Fife.  "We went down terribly well in the village hall," he added, "playing to an audience of fishermen who got a free glass of wine — well, several glasses actually — for coming. Gave us a marvelous reception."The second world tour is due to hit London in November. "I fear they've heard of us down there," Mr. McCall Smith said, slightly concerned that they might also have heard a pernicious rumor that, thanks to persistent practice, the orchestra was less bad than it used to be."It's not true," he insisted, "and I don't see how it could be. We're only too happy for people to practice. I do myself, but it will never make a difference. No one good is ever going to join us. And if they did, they'd be hugely outnumbered. Children would raise the standard, but we don't let them in for that reason. It would be too embarrassing. And though people say we have ambitions, what is ambition? When a piece speeds up, it's ambitious enough for me."UNIONDALE, N.Y., Aug. 24 — If you're starting to feel that this summer has been one long, hot slog, just be glad you're not Jordin Sparks. Or Sanjaya Malakar. Or Melinda Doolittle. Or what's-his-name, the bald one.They and the other Season 6 finalists have spent the summer entertaining excitable young fans and patient parents on the "American Idols Live!" tour. It began in early July in Sunrise, Fla., and is scheduled to end in late September in Manchester, N.H. On Friday night the gang came here, to the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum: one winner (Ms. Sparks) and nine losers, putting on a show that amounted to high-energy karaoke.No doubt these well-worn songs are now deeply — perhaps pathologically — imprinted in the singers' brains. Twenty years from now, if you snuck into Chris Richardson's bedroom and cued up "I Heard It Through the Grapevine," he would probably immediately rise from his bed and start mouthing the words, throwing in a few Pavlovian dance moves for good measure."American Idol"  once known for celebrating big ballads and big voices, seems less old-fashioned than it used to. As "Idol" veterans storm the pop charts, the franchise (which also includes a management company and record label) has become better integrated into the music industry, embracing the genre divisions that rule mainstream radio. The set list included Fall Out Boy, Martina McBride and Gnarls Barkley songs. And during the intermission, screens showed videos by successful  — and genre-oriented — "Idol" alumni: the rocker Chris Daughtry, the country star Carrie Underwood, the R&B singer Fantasia. (Where was Kelly Clarkson, formerly the franchise's star pupil?)Bombastic belters haven't been completely left behind: LaKisha Jones earned a big ovation for her lung-busting rendition of "I Will Always Love You." But the clear star of this show was Blake Lewis, the man who brought beat-boxing to "American Idol." (With any luck he'll take it with him too.) Mr. Lewis got the loudest screams whenever he appeared, and he has the kind of voice — a little bit nasal, a little bit whiny  — that will probably sound good on the radio. For a solo version of the Maroon 5 hit "She Will Be Loved," he used a pedal to loop his beat-boxed rhythm; the result was a bit messy, but it was also a reminder that Mr. Lewis had been entertaining crowds (although small ones)  before "Idol."And then there was Mr. Malakar, he of the flowing locks and less-than-overpowering voice. There's a welcome hint of mischief in his famously bright smile, which looks even less innocent in person than it does on television. (Could it be that this self-described shy kid is also a shameless flirt?) If he seems more like an all-purpose celebrity than a world-class singer  —  well, that's hardly bad news for his pop career.As her reward for winning, Ms. Sparks got a solo showcase near the end. Her voice isn't as rich as that of Ms. Doolittle (who had been an early favorite but finished third), but she's clearly versatile, and she earned a big cheer by accompanying herself on acoustic guitar while singing the Jewel hit, "You Were Meant for Me."Oddly, there was no acknowledgment of the day's biggest "Idol" news: a few hours before the concert Ms. Sparks's first post-"Idol" single, a winsome love song called "Tattoo," arrived on the Internet. This concert also made no mention of the uncertain future these singers face, just as it made no mention of the crushing rejections that 9 out of the 10 had survived, or the harsh judgments that help make "Idol" so popular.Surely it wasn't a coincidence that the show resembled the climactic prom scene from a teenage movie. For one night old gaffes and slights were forgotten, and everyone  could feel like a winner.The singers smiled and hugged and smiled some more. Maybe they realized that this never ending tour would be over before they were ready. When they walk offstage in Manchester, it will be time to face the music industry, a ruthless world where losers really do lose.MARTHA'S VINEYARD is one of the few American destinations without a regional bed-and-breakfast inn association, which tells you something right off: This is an island of independent-minded New Englanders.Each of the six towns on the Vineyard has a distinct character and distinct characters, and so do the island's individual B & Bs and country inns. The handful below distinguish themselves not only for how much they reflect the flavor of their town, but also because each adjoins a restaurant that makes it unnecessary to wander too far come evening.To help select the ambience that suits you, here is a quick review of island geography and vocabulary: "down-island" means the eastern end, the towns of Vineyard Haven, Oak Bluffs and Edgartown, bustling places with vibrant main streets. West Tisbury is "mid-island," surrounded by pastoral splendor; its village center is a church, a  town hall, a library, the Field Gallery and Alley's General Store. To the west — "up-island" — are Chilmark and Aquinnah, rural settlements of sheep-dotted meadows and woodlands.Since some B&Bs are situated in dry towns, bring your own spirits to dinner at all the establishments below except for The Charlotte Inn.Those who missed the Vineyard summer may look the wiser by planning now for the island fall. Rates and crowds drop noticeably while the water temperatures do not, thanks to warming Gulf Stream currents.The Mansion HouseThe only inn of this collection that is walking distance from a ferry, the 40-room Mansion House, is on Vineyard Haven's Main Street. From the rooftop, the view of the harbor is the best in town.Though Susan and Sherman Goldstein were inexperienced as hoteliers when they bought and opened the Mansion House in 1985, one couldn't ask for better hospitality-industry credentials: she was a middle school teacher and he was a family therapist. Mr. Goldstein earns island-credibility extra credit as an avid fisherman. You don't have to bend his arm to have him show you his handsomely encased rare collection of lures and hand-forged eel spears, alongside walls full of sepia-toned photographs of Vineyard Haven since the 1800s.The rooms are compact but well designed to handle big family groups, with couches that fold out into beds; several rooms connect to others. White wicker furniture and corals and greens set summery tones.Working the open kitchen of Zephrus restaurant, the chef, Melissa Martin, makes it  two restaurants in one. On one side of the menu comes straight-ahead New England fare: crab cakes, lobster rolls, chowder, fish and chips, burgers with  a choice of 12 toppings. On the other, she indulges in experiments with creative combinations, like grilled lamb lollipops smothered in black currant and apple glaze, or Dover sole over apple-infused basmati rice topped with baby white asparagus and citrus beurre blanc. The dining spills out onto a popular sidewalk cafe area.Double rooms  are $279 to $489. From Sept. 4, they are $179 to $349. 9 Main Street, Vineyard Haven; (508) 693-2200; www.mvmansionhouse.com.The Charlotte InnThe title of a book about the inn  best sums up  its ambience: "Behind the Times on Purpose." On a side street in Edgartown — lined with whaling captains' huge white mansions that never let you forget its moneyed past or its moneyed present — this Edwardian building ushers you into a bygone era. Antique fixtures, furnishings and 19th-century art of the fox hunt genre cram the three parlors and rooms of the main house, as well as the four other buildings.Gery and Paula Conover, who have owned and lived at the inn since 1970, don't take reservations by e-mail. They prohibit cellphone use in public areas and do not accommodate groups or children younger than 14. The inn, a Relais & Châteaux property, still doesn't have its own Web site (though you can view rooms at the site listed below). Reservations are hard to get for its 25 rooms. "If it's not broke, don't fix it," Mr. Conover said.Little nooks, ponds and bench areas tucked into unlikely corners make the grounds feel larger than they are. Mr. Conover tends the gardens using antique tools.The chef, Chris Parsons, whose Catch restaurant in Winchester, Mass., has garnered praise in the Boston area, took over the Charlotte Inn's restaurant in May, renaming it Catch at the Terrace. The dining room is one of the most romantic settings for a meal on the island. Tall windows and a glassed-in patio area with ferns and fountains give it a greenhouse feel; the walls are chockablock with quirky antiques like a row of old wooden mailboxes.Mr. Parsons, a fourth-generation fly fisherman, not surprisingly focuses on fish. Herb-roasted Atlantic cod surrounded by Menemsha lobster and Wellfleet clams, all afloat in a sea of lemon-thyme broth, is excellent. He shows what he can do with local meats in a tender red-wine-braised lamb from Allen Farm in Chilmark, with chanterelle mushrooms and Macumber turnips.Rooms are $295 to $695, suites $695 to $950; starting Nov. 2,  rooms are $295 to $495, suites $550 to $595. 27 South Summer Street, Edgartown; (508) 627-4151; www.relaischateaux.com/charlotte.Lambert's Cove InnAt the end of a half-mile-long country road, set on seven and a half green acres surrounded by woodlands, the Lambert's Cove Inn gives the impression of being far removed from mankind but is actually centrally situated. An 18th-century working farm converted to an inn in 1960, it underwent a face lift two years ago when Kell Hicklin and Scott Jones, two defectors from corporate jobs in Atlanta, bought it. Their brand of Southern hospitality is evident  as you approach the front door and hear classical music  from outdoor speakers.While the partners renovated the entire property, added a kidney-shaped pool, spruced up the gardens and grounds and moved and expanded the dining room, they retained Joe DaSilva, one of the most respected chefs on the island; this is his fourth season at the inn. Whether he's cooking fish, fowl or meat, Mr. DaSilva's signature is crisp skins saturated with flavor balanced by moist and tender centers. A good example is his appetizer of pan-roasted quail with corn custard and mushroom in a foie gras butter sauce. Among the entrees, the scallops with a truffle cauliflower purée with smoked chorizo gives a nod to his Portuguese roots.Rooms, now $220 to $350 for two people, drop Oct. 9 to $165 to $295. 90 Manaquayak Road, West Tisbury; (508) 693-2298; www.lambertscoveinn.com.The Inns at MenemshaMenemsha, the fishing village in the town of Chilmark, has been painted, filmed and photographed so many times you'll swear you've been there before, even if you haven't.Just up the hill from the only Chilmark beach open to all island visitors are abutting  inns that historically had been separately owned. In 2004, Bob and Sarah Nixon, owners of the Menemsha Inn, acquired the Beach Plum Inn. Now the couple, conservationists and documentary filmmakers based in Washington, spread their enthusiasm on the two properties set discreetly across some 25 wooded acres.At the Menemsha Inn, the older of the two, the cottages and buildings are simply furnished, evoking memories of what people used to call their summer "camp." The Life magazine photographer Alfred Eisenstadt spent 53 summers in a row in one of the 27 rooms, up to the summer of the year he died.The Beach Plum Inn, rebuilt after a 2000 fire, is fresh and modern. Several cottages surround the main building; there are 12 rooms in all. From the dining room in the main building, the village is visible through carefully cropped trees. Sunsets are a thing to behold.James McDonough has run the kitchen for 12 years. Having previously cooked in kitchens on the Jersey Shore, in Alaska and on St. Thomas in the Caribbean, he can be trusted to know fresh fish. He leverages the Beach Plum's proximity to the fish and fishermen of Menemsha to his best advantage.His pan-roasted hazelnut-crusted halibut, with Marsala beurre blanc, proves his respect for the natural succulence of fresh fish by not obscuring its taste with too many nuts. If his grilled lobster topped with a caviar cream sauce is on the menu, order it quickly, before it disappears.Rooms for two are $275 to $400; starting Sept. 23 they're $185 to $300. Menemsha Inn, 12 Menemsha Inn Road, Menemsha; (508) 645-2521. Beach Plum Inn, 50 Beach Plum Lane; (508) 645-9454. Both are at www.innsatmenemsha.com.The Outermost InnYou want end-of-the-earth outpost? Try Aquinnah, 18 miles from the ferry at the westernmost tip of the island, with unobstructed views across Vineyard Sound all the way to Newport, R.I. This is an East Coast beach from which you can watch the sun set into the sea.Steps from the red Gay Head Cliffs and near a 19th-century lighthouse, Jeanne and Hugh Taylor built onto their own home to create the Outermost Inn in 1990. Six of the seven airy rooms are named after the wood Mr. Taylor used to build them — beech, oak, cherry, hickory, and so on. Almost every window in the inn looks out on water.The Taylors, warm, entertaining, casual but highly efficient hosts, are both connected to island lore. He is one of the singing Taylor siblings (James, Livingston, Kate) associated with Martha's Vineyard since the 1950s. Her Vineyard ties go back much further, descended as she is from a Flanders on one side and a Mayhew on the other, the island's earliest European settlers. Her great-great-great grandfather, Samuel Flanders, was a keeper of the Gay Head Light — and, like Jeanne, quite the legendary host."We could sell hot dogs with this view," Mr. Taylor said. But Daniel Sauer, who took over the reins of the restaurant last year after stints at Oceana, Craft and Hearth in Manhattan, turns the Outermost into a destination restaurant.Roasted barramundi fish, with trumpet royal mushrooms and butterscotch beans and red wine, demonstrate his range. Desserts such as rhubarb and blueberry crisp with mascarpone and strawberry sorbet make it hard to pull away from the table to catch an occasional Taylor family sing-along in the living room. Mr. Sauer's wife, Wenonah Madison, is a native Wampanoag, whose Aquinnah-based tribal members predate Mrs. Taylor's ancestors' arrival by several thousand  years, give or take a few. This bodes well for their sticking around awhile.Rooms for two are $310 to $390; on Sept. 16 they drop to $280 to $350.  81 Lighthouse Road, Aquinnah; (508) 645-3511; www.outermostinn.com.Madeleine B. Stern, a prominent rare-book dealer, biographer and literary sleuth who helped bring to print Louisa May Alcott's long-lost Gothic tales of murder, sexual subjugation, opium dens and other things simply too dreadful to mention, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 95.Ms. Stern's executor, Richard Koch, confirmed the death.With her companion and business partner of many years, Leona Rostenberg, Ms. Stern presided over Rostenberg & Stern Rare Books, run largely from their apartment on Manhattan's Upper East Side. For more than half a century, the two women were an institution in the world of antiquarian bookselling, scouring the United States and Europe for printed treasures. Ms. Stern was also a founder of the New York Antiquarian Book Fair, held annually since 1960.In 1942, Ms. Rostenberg, following clues sprinkled in Alcott's correspondence and other writings, found evidence that Alcott (1832-88), best known for sweet novels like "Little Women," had also written racy potboilers. Published in popular magazines anonymously or under the pseudonym A. M. Barnard, the stories were the pulp fiction of their day, awash in deceit, depravity and death. "Blood-and-thunder tales," Alcott dismissively called them.Starting in the 1970s, Ms. Stern oversaw their publication in assorted volumes.  These included "Behind a Mask: The Unknown Thrillers of Louisa May Alcott" (Morrow, 1975); "Plots and Counterplots: More Unknown Thrillers of Louisa May Alcott" (Morrow, 1976); and "Louisa May Alcott Unmasked: Collected Thrillers" (Northeastern University, 1995), all edited and with introductions by Ms. Stern.The recipient of a Guggenheim fellowship, Ms. Stern wrote or edited dozens of books, among them "Louisa May Alcott," published in 1950 by the University of Oklahoma Press. (The biography was issued in a new edition by Northeastern University in 1999.) Her other biographies include "Purple Passage: The Life of Mrs. Frank Leslie" (University of Oklahoma, 1953), about the wife of a 19th-century publisher of illustrated periodicals, in which many of Alcott's clandestine works first appeared.With Ms. Rostenberg, Ms. Stern wrote several joint memoirs of their heady lives amid dust, morocco and gilded edges: "Old & Rare: Thirty Years in the Book Business" (A. Schram, 1974); "Old Books, Rare Friends: Two Literary Sleuths and Their Shared Passion" (Doubleday, 1997); and "Bookends: Two Women, One Enduring Friendship" (Free Press, 2001).A  stage musical version of "Bookends," written by Katharine Houghton  with music by Dianne Adams and James McDowell, is playing through Sunday at the New Jersey Repertory Company in Long Branch.Madeleine Bettina Stern was born in Manhattan on July 1, 1912. She earned a bachelor's degree in English literature from Barnard College in 1932, followed by a master's in the field from Columbia University in 1934.Ms. Stern and Ms. Rostenberg met in 1929, when both worked as teachers at the Sabbath School of Temple Emanu-El, in Manhattan. They regarded each other with mutual disdain: Ms. Stern was a lowly college freshman, and Ms. Rostenberg, a senior at New York University, was not Ivy League.But a few years later, when the women met again as Columbia graduate students, a warm friendship blossomed, based on their mutual desire for a life of the mind. They eventually took up residence on East 88th Street, amid glass-fronted bookcases, worn silk upholstery and a stately succession of dachshunds.In 1943, Columbia rejected Ms. Rostenberg's doctoral dissertation. (It was on the role of the printer-publisher in influencing public discourse in the 16th century.) To console her, Ms. Stern gave her a box of stationery embossed with the intoxicating words "Leona Rostenberg — Rare Books." With a $1,000  loan from Ms. Stern, Ms. Rostenberg opened her business the next year. Ms. Stern joined her in 1945.Ms. Rostenberg died in 2005, at 96. Ms. Stern leaves no immediate survivors.In interviews over the years, the two women  were asked — often — whether their relationship was romantic. They always demurred, for in the end, they implied, what did the answer really matter? As they wrote in "Old Books, Rare Friends,"  "Our partnership in business is also a partnership in life — the partnership of 'Faithful Friends' who share 'a deep, deep love.' "Smoke machine, strobe lights and ... sitar? That was the combination at the Highline Ballroom on Wednesday night. Anoushka Shankar, Ravi Shankar's daughter and musical disciple, and Karsh Kale, a tabla drummer who is also an electronica producer and programmer, have collaborated on an album, "Breathing Underwater" (Manhattan), and their band headlined a triple bill of world-music fusions to commemorate the 15th anniversary of Global Rhythm magazine. The transcontinental bill also included the South African trumpeter Hugh Masekela and the Guadeloupean New York saxophonist Jacques Schwarz-Bart."Breathing Underwater" is a generally somber album, weighed down by portentous ballads. The Shankar-Kale band got them out of the way during its set, with Monica Dogra taking over the vocals on "Easy," a song that Ms. Shankar's half-sister, Norah Jones, sings on the album.The songs with words work like Bollywood tunes, with Ms. Shankar supplying clear-cut melodies and hooks on sitar. Vishal  Vaid, singing in Hindi, took over for songs that moved the East-West balance closer to India, singing with the long, floating lines and curvy ornaments of Asian classical traditions.But the set's most memorable parts were instrumental,  when hybrid rhythms — with Mr. Karsh's tablas boosted by a funk rhythm section and electronic beats — set off improvisations and dizzyingly fast unison passages from Ms. Shankar  on sitar and Ravichandra Kulur on wooden flute.Ms. Shankar echoes both her father's singing phrases and his aggressive, joyfully flamboyant attack, and Mr. Kulur played up the contrast with gliding, curling lines teasing against her staccato ones. It was dance club music with tradition at its fingertips.Mr. Masekela's fusion of South African rhythms with jazz is so venerable — his "Grazing in the Grass" was a hit in 1968 — that it's starting to sound like a tradition itself. While his band of South African musicians played rolling South African vamps, Mr. Masekela took multiple roles.On flugelhorn, he was a jazzman with cagey phrases and wily chromatic turns. As a singer, he was earthy and vigorous, singing gently and working up to an age-old rasp. And as host, he goaded the audience into cheers and dancing, while reminding them that Africa's problems are not over.Mr. Schwarz-Bart, who played saxophone in the R&B singer D'Angelo's band, just released the album "Soné Ka-La" (Emarcy) in the United States. It places his modern-jazz tenor saxophone atop rhythms from Gaudeloupe. Instead of trap drums, his band features two drummers playing the island's traditional boula and marké hand drums.Above them he uses the hard tone of John Coltrane and the young Wayne Shorter in the angular lines and asymmetrical structures of 1960s jazz; his keyboardist, Milan Milanovic, has studied Herbie Hancock.There's serious thought in Mr. Schwarz-Bart's fusion, and the various Afro-Caribbean rhythms gave the music momentum. But he played nearly every song with the same unyielding pugnacity, jabbing every phrase. For music with Caribbean roots, it was oddly lacking in warmth.POPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.ONEIDA There's something about Oneida's music that seems as if it could go on forever. Maybe it's that dissonant organ, pounding a few chords over and over in long, throbbing noise-drones. Or maybe it's the vocals, chanted as if part of some ceremony from rock 'n' roll's tribal prehistory. It could be the drums, fast and strong and unrelenting. Whatever it is, Oneida has been bashing it out for 10 years now as the consummate Brooklyn avant-rock band, weird enough to play a single riff for 14 minutes, as it did on "Sheets of Easter," from its 2002 double album,  "Each One Teach One" (Jagjaguwar), yet enough of a meat-and-potatoes rock outfit to have clear stylistic connections to the MC5 and Led Zeppelin.Over the last decade it has been easy to take Oneida for granted, as the band — above, from left, Hanoi Jane, Kid Millions and Fat Bobby — has played countless club shows and parties, remaining a local favorite even as other Brooklyn groups like its onetime opening act the Yeah Yeah Yeahs have gone on to national prominence. But at P.S. 1 in Queens Saturday Oneida makes an elder-statesman gesture by playing a 10th-anniversary show, supported by friends like Sightings, Ex-Models and Dirty Faces. May the weirdness go on and on. (Saturday at 3 p.m., P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, 718-784-2084, ps1.org; $10.) BEN SISARIO ACID MOTHERS GURU GURU, USAISAMONSTER (Saturday) An avant-rock supergroup, Acid Mothers Guru Guru is made up of members of Acid Mother's Temple  from Japan — who call their style "extreme trip music," which basically means big, sloppy noise jams — and Mani Neumeier, drummer of the long-running German band Guru Guru, whose style is somewhere between free jazz and psychedelic rock. USAisamonster is a guitar-drum duo from Brooklyn whose jerky, robotic constructions turn into powerful blasts of sound. With Phantom Family Halo. At 8 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Ben Sisario) * AGAINST ME!, MATT & KIM (Wednesday) As an old-fashioned political punk band with pop ambitions, Against Me!, from Gainesville, Fla., walks a tightrope —  two, in fact. One for making a slick major-label album, "New Wave" (Sire) — the group's origins are as D.I.Y. as you can get — and another for its lyrics, which excoriate Condoleezza Rice but also rail against protest singers for not doing enough to stop the wars they sing about. Matt & Kim are indie-rock's ultimate birthday band: a Brooklyn couple who pound organ and drums through irrationally exuberant, major-key romps that are equal parts garage-rock and Nintendo. With David Dondero. At 8 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street,  Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; sold out. (Sisario)AN ALBATROSS (Wednesday) An Albatross, from Wilkes-Barre, Pa., shrieks its way through dizzying but lighthearted prog-hardcore songs that borrow something from Captain Beefheart. With Shock Cinema. At 11:30 p.m., Spiegeltent, Pier 17, South Street Seaport, Fulton and South Streets,  Lower Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, spiegelworld.com; $25.(Sisario)AMIINA  (Wednesday) The four women of Amiina, who have recorded and toured with their fellow Icelanders Sigur Ros, are nominally a string quartet but also go into twinklier realms, playing harmoniums, glockenspiels, singing wine glasses, bells, harpsichords and other instruments in dreamlike, celestial combinations. With David Karsten Daniels. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $15 in advance, $18 at the door. (Sisario)? ARCTIC MONKEYS, VOXTROT (Wednesday) Emerging from Sheffield, England, a few years ago as an unstoppable teenage indie-rock machine, Arctic Monkeys played perfect, cutting post-punk riffs and sang of night-life exhaustion with a jadedness beyond their years. Now, with the members barely into their 20s, the band returned this year with "Favourite Worst Nightmare" (Domino), and thankfully not much has changed. Like Morrissey or Ray Davies, Voxtrot's Ramesh Srivastava uses the small scale, tight script and jangly energy of the three-minute rock song  —  as well as a fragile voice perfectly comfortable with its limitations  —  to focus emotionally compelling character studies. At 5 p.m., Rumsey Playfield, Central Park, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 307-7171;$32.50. (Sisario)AVENTURA (Saturday) This appealing Latino boy-band makes hits in a variety of genres, from bachata to R&B to reggaetón. At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $79.50 to $114.50. (Kelefa Sanneh) ? BATTLES, DEERHUNTER (Friday) Call it post-rock, call it math-rock — it doesn't matter. The mostly instrumental New York band Battles has perfected a sinewy guitar minimalism that is as cerebral as it is visceral. Deerhunter, from Atlanta, weaves sweet guitar and high-pitched vocal overtones into patterns both florid and evil, as its androgynous and beanstalk-thin singer, Bradford Cox, puts on a performance that's part somnambulist and part angry stripper. At 6, with DJ Mike Wolf. South Street Seaport, Pier 17, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 835-2789, seaportmusicfestival.com; free. (Sisario)BILL CALLAHAN, SIR RICHARD BISHOP (Thursday) Performing as Smog or under his own name, Bill Callahan is a lo-fi obscurantist, mumbling in a lethargic baritone and playing simple, obstinate guitar patterns; he used to hide it all behind a screen of noise, but recently he has been content to let his music speak for itself, however cryptically. Sir Richard Bishop — the title is self-bestowed — is the guitarist of the experimental Phoenix group Sun City Girls, and despite his music's dissonance and confusion, he has a sharp sense of humor: his latest album is "While My Guitar Violently Bleeds" (Locust Music). With Blues Control. At 9 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $15. (Sisario)CLUTCH (Friday) Like a machine whose design was perfected in prototype, this Maryland band's sound — a taut funk-metal with big, tough Black Sabbathesque riffs and barked vocals — has barely changed since its debut in 1993, nor should it. The group plays the Bowery Ballroom with Hidden Hand, featuring Scott Weinrich (a k a Wino) of the Maryland doom-metal band the Obsessed; Fiend Without a Face, with Brent Hinds of Mastodon; and the suddenly ubiquitous Beatallica, which plays parodic combinations of Beatles and Metallica songs ("Sgt. Hetfield's Motorbreath Pub Band"). At 7, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out.(Sisario)DINOSAUR JR., DR. DOG (Monday) One of the greatest and most influential original grunge bands, Dinosaur Jr. joined mopey lyrics to furious guitar sludge, prefiguring Nirvana. Long estranged, the original lineup of J Mascis on guitar, Lou Barlow on bass and Murph on drums recently released "Beyond" (Fat Possum), their first album together in 18 years, sounding as brawny and vigorous as ever. Dr. Dog, from Philadelphia, takes a jam-band approach to high-energy rhapsodies that recall "Abbey Road"-era Beatles. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $20. (Sisario)DUMPSTAPHUNK (Friday) One of the MySpace images for Ivan Neville's new group gives an idea of where it's coming from: the site shows a satellite picture of Hurricane Katrina about to crash into New Orleans. Funk bands are supposed to be about good times, and Dumpstaphunk, the current reigning New Orleans funk outfit, provides that in abundance. But in angry, topical songs like "Livin' in a World Gone Mad" it also reminds us why the good vibes are so badly needed. At 11, B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $17. (Sisario)THE EXPLOSION (Saturday) This unapologetically retro Boston punk band — "We look to the past, and ask for nothing more" goes one song — announced this spring that it would be breaking up, but before joining the rock 'n' roll graveyard plays this final show at the Knitting Factory. With Modern Life Is War and the Ergs. At 6 p.m., 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, knittingfactory.com; $12. (Sisario)GOV'T MULE (Thursday) Warren Haynes is a true road warrior: besides the endless touring he does with the Allman Brothers — so far this year they have played the New York area at least 16 times — he also plays guitar with Gov't Mule, his Southern-rock-meets-Led-Zeppelin jam band. With Grace Potter and the Nocturnals, and Earl Greyhound. At 4:30 p.m., Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 307-7171; $35. (Sisario) ? IRIE JAMBOREE (Sunday) The lineup for this second huge reggae concert in a week is impressive, with Stephen Marley, a child of Bob, who has distinguished himself as a rapper, songwriter and Grammy-winning producer; the dexterous dancehall star Beenie Man; Morgan Heritage, featuring the children of the reggae star Denroy Morgan; and Assassin, a DJ and vocalist who calls himself "Agent 006," along with Mr. Vegas, Anthony B, Munga, Jovi Rockwell and Tony Matterhorn. At 1 p.m., Roy Wilkins Park, Baisley and Merrick Boulevards, Jamaica, Queens, (888) 474-3692, iriejamboree.com; $59.99 and $99.99. (Sisario)? DANIEL JOHNSTON (Tuesday) One of the great savants of underground pop, Mr. Johnston writes stirringly candid songs that sound as if they could be the dreams or nightmares of John Lennon. At 10 p.m., Spiegeltent, Pier 17, South Street Seaport, Fulton and South Streets,  Lower Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, spiegelworld.com; $25 and $30. (Sisario)KATATONIA (Thursday) This Swedish band has a moody and histrionic style that the critic Chuck Eddy once described as "Neanderthal-black-metal-evolving-toward-Cro-Magnon-sorrow-metal." Also on the bill are Chthonic — a Taiwanese group that specializes in operatic black metal, a style long dominated by Scandinavian bands — along with Scar Symmetry, Insomnium and Swallow the Sun. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $20 in advance, $22 at the door. (Sisario)DAYNA KURTZ (Friday) That's not weariness in the plain alto of Dayna Kurtz, a singer-songwriter from Brooklyn skilled at conveying the sting of heartbreak. It's vulnerability, which means that no matter how many times a relationship collapses, she is still hopeful when asking her lover to kiss her "like a stranger." At 8, Barbès, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; $10. (Sisario)LEDISI (Friday) This San Francisco jazz-funk singer combines a large,  raw talent with a sunny personality. She is still at the early stage of a career in which she takes a childlike delight in the variety of vocal sounds (everything from screams and whoops to clucks and clicks) she can produce. Her voice is her portable playground. With DJ Moni. At 8, Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $28.(Stephen Holden)NEW MODEL ARMY (Thursday) An English band founded in the early 1980s by the songwriter Justin Sullivan, New Model Army has held onto the vehement idealism and revved-up guitars of the British punk-rock pioneered by the Clash. With Echoes & Shadows and the Last Conspirators. At 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $15. (Jon Pareles)OAKLEY HALL, THE TEETH (Tuesday) Patient country-rock mutates into powerful, noisy pulsations in the songs of Oakley Hall, a Brooklyn band led by Pat Sullivan, a former member of Brooklyn's other masters of psychedelic minimalism, Oneida. The Teeth, led by twin brothers who reportedly still work at the same Philadelphia pizza and cheese-steak spot, play a smart and exuberantly overstuffed kind of guitar pop that comes down from the Kinks and David Bowie. With Ola Podrida. At 8:30 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $10. (Sisario)PETER BJORN & JOHN, THE CLIENTELE (Wednesday and Thursday) The latest sharp and impeccably stylish import from Sweden, the trio Peter Bjorn & John sets heavy-hearted vocals over spare but peppery band arrangements that recall 1960s folk-pop. Best of all: lots of great whistling. There's comfort in familiarity, and the Clientele's soft, sweetly finessed songs, with echoes of the Byrds' gleaming folk-rock and George Harrison's breathy calm, are a seductive sonic cocoon. Wednesday at 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; sold out. Thursday at 8 p.m., Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, roselandballroom.com; $26.50 in advance, $30 at the door. (Sisario)STEVE RILEY AND THE MAMOU PLAYBOYS (Thursday) The accordionist Steve Riley leads one of the best bands from the Louisiana bayous. It reaches back to some of the oldest Cajun tunes and can play them in traditional style, but it's not afraid of swamp-rock or a touch of country, either. At 7:30 p.m., with a free dance lesson at 6:30 p.m., Connolly's, 121 West 45th Street, Manhattan, (212) 597-5126, letszydeco.com; $22. (Pareles)SATELLITE PARTY (Wednesday) The latest unimpressive project of Perry Farrell is Satellite Party, whose debut album, "Ultra Payloaded" (Columbia), when not sounding like a limp imitation of Mr. Farrell's former band, Jane's Addiction, resorts to tricks like borrowing an unreleased vocal track from Jim Morrison. With Mink. At 9 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $25. (Sisario) ? SEBADOH (Sunday) Next to Pavement, Sebadoh was the pre-eminent 1990s slacker band, talented and witty yet never accused of putting too much care into its recordings or of singing too well in tune. Its lo-fi methods were inseparable from its shaggy aesthetic, and on the heels of two important reissues, "The Freed Man" from 1989 and "Sebadoh III" from 1991, the classic Sebadoh lineup of Lou Barlow, Eric Gaffney and Jason Loewenstein is touring for the first time in 14 years. (Mr. Barlow is also in town this week with his other reunited band, Dinosaur Jr., on Monday at Webster Hall.) With Die! Die! Die! At 7 p.m., Europa, 98 Meserole Avenue, at Manhattan Avenue, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 383-5723, europaclub.com; $20. (Sisario) ? PATTI SMITH (Tuesday) Now 60, Ms. Smith is one of the official ribbon-cutters and blessing-givers of New York rock. Last year she played the final show at CBGB, and for the last nine New Year's Eves has presided at the Bowery Ballroom, playing the rhapsodic and elemental music that made her the queen of punk and art-rock in the '70s. On Tuesday she opens the Music Hall of Williamsburg, a major addition to the city's club scene that has been painstakingly constructed by the company that runs the Bowery. At 9 p.m., 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; sold out. (Sisario)SUNBURNED HAND OF THE MAN (Wednesday) Improvisation means lots of things in rock, but to this Massachusetts collective, which has been churning out dozens of albums and homemade recordings since the mid-'90s, it means spacey, meandering drones that seem like endless psychedelic trips. With Zaimph and D. Charles Speer. At 8 p.m., Death by Audio, 49 South Second Street, between Wythe and Kent Avenues, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, toddpnyc.com;  $8. (Sisario)TEA LEAF GREEN (Thursday) The good-time country-rock melodies and easygoing groove of this San Francisco band evokes mid-period Grateful Dead, but, on record at least, Tea Leaf Green keeps its songs tidy and relatively jam-free. With Tom Marshall and Amfibian. At 10 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171;  $20 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sisario)KATHRYN WILLIAMS (Tuesday) A critics' darling back home in Britain, this hush-voiced and tasteful singer-songwriter makes her American debut at the cozy Living Room. At 9 p.m., 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235, livingroomny.com; $10.(Sisario)JAZZ Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.RASHIED ALI QUINTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Rashied Ali has had a substantial career in the avant-garde, starting with his percussive role in the late-period groups of John Coltrane. But hard bop is the sturdy foundation for this quintet, with a front line of Jumaane Smith on trumpet and Lawrence Clark on tenor saxophone. At 8 and 10, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum.(Nate Chinen)RICHIE BEIRACH 60TH-BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION (Tonight and tomorrow night) The introspective pianist and composer Richie Beirach belatedly celebrates a personal milestone with close colleagues like the violinist Gregor Huebner and the trumpeter Randy Brecker. At 8:30 and 11, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum.(Chinen)PETER BERNSTEIN (Tonight through Sunday) Mr. Bernstein, a guitarist with a clean tone and a crisp technique, works here with the excellent rhythm team of Doug Weiss on bass and Bill Stewart on drums. Tonight and tomorrow night, they welcome the pianist Brad Mehldau as a guest; on Sunday night they will interpret the music of Thelonious Monk. At 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30; $25 on Sunday.(Chinen)JOHNATHAN BLAKE QUINTET (Thursday) Johnathan Blake is a drummer equally capable of muscular propulsion and subtle shading, and he'll be likely to explore both avenues in this band, with Jaleel Shaw and Donny McCaslin on saxophones, Luis Perdomo on piano and Joe Martin on bass. At 9 and 11 p.m. and 1 a.m., Cachaça, 35 West Eighth Street, near Macdougal Street, West Village, (212) 388-9099, cachacajazz.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)MICHAEL CAIN (Sunday) Mr. Cain is an almost maniacally versatile pianist (and bassist and programmer) whose music conveys a questing sensibility. His quartet includes Brian Landrus on reeds, Mike Gamble on guitar and Rudy Royston on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Bar 4, 444 Seventh Avenue, at 15th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-9800,  myspace.com/konceptionsatbar4; cover, a $5 suggested donation. (Chinen)LARRY CORYELL, MARK EGAN, PAUL WERTICO (Thursday) Mr. Coryell, the guitarist rightfully acknowledged as one of the trailblazers of jazz-rock, joins Mr. Egan, a well-traveled electric bassist, and Mr. Wertico, a propulsive drummer, in an all-star fusion collective. (Through Sept. 9.) At 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)ELI DEGIBRI TRIO (Tuesday) Eli Degibri, a tenor saxophonist with a taste for burnished sonorities, enjoys the support of the bassist Ben Street and the drummer Jeff Ballard, an experienced rhythm team. At 9 and 11 p.m. , Louis 649, 649 East Ninth Street, at Avenue C, East Village, (212) 673-1190, louis649.com; no cover. (Chinen)★ AL DI MEOLA AND WORLD SINFONIA (Thursday) Mr. Di Meola, a guitarist of spectacular abilities, revisits an acoustic tango-oriented project from his own past (his album "World Sinfonia," now out of print, was issued in 1991 by Rhino). Reprising his role is the percussionist Gumbi Ortiz; also on hand are the classical guitarist Peo Alfonsi and the accordionist Fausto Beccalossi. (Through Sept. 9.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)DIET COKE WOMEN IN JAZZ FESTIVAL (Monday through Thursday) In the third installment of this annual festival, female artists hold court at Dizzy's Club throughout the coming month. Valerie Capers, a veteran pianist, kicks things off on Monday with her quintet; cover, $20.  For the rest of the week, the intense and emphatic drummer Cindy Blackman leads her own group. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an additional  11 p.m. show on Thursday, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30; minimum charge for each show,  $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)BILLY DRUMMOND GROUP (Tonight and tomorrow night) Billy Drummond, a respected drummer in the post-bop tradition, has a rather less heralded reputation as a bandleader, though he deserves equal recognition on both fronts. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20.(Chinen)AVRAM FEFER TRIO (Thursday) The tenor saxophonist Avram Fefer works often in strenuous free-form settings, but in this casual weekly engagement he favors a more centrist approach. His rhythm section here consists of the bassist Sean Conly and the drummer Greg Gonzalez. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Le Père Pinard, 175 Ludlow Street, between Houston and Stanton Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 777-4917, leperepinard.com; no cover. (Chinen)MARK FELDMAN AND MATT MANERI (Tuesday) Mr. Feldman, a violinist, and Mr. Maneri, a violist, share an attraction to spontaneity, and to a kind of penetrating lyricism. Their duets, largely improvised, should produce some fascinating results. At 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)★ FRED HERSCH PIANO DUOS (Tuesday through Thursday) Each night of this noteworthy engagement matches the ever-sophisticated Fred Hersch with a strong pianistic foil. The series begins with Ethan Iverson (Tuesday), Brad Mehldau (Wednesday) and Kenny Barron (Wednesday): extremely promising partners, each in a different way. (Through Sept. 9.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30. (Chinen)BORIS KOZLOV TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) Boris Kozlov, a dynamic bassist, leads an acoustic trio with the pianist George Colligan and the drummer Ernesto Simpson. At 9 and 11 p.m. and 1 a.m., Cachaça, 35 West Eighth Street, near Macdougal Street, West Village, (212) 388-9099, cachacajazz.com. Cover, $10, with a $15 minimum tonight; $20, with a $10 minimum tomorrow.   (Chinen)DAVID LIEBMAN (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Liebman is one of a handful of saxophonists to pass through the funk-fueled 1970s groups of Miles Davis. He revisits that experience on a new album, "Back on the Corner" (Tone Center), and again in this engagement, with a group that includes the guitarist Mike Stern and the electric bassist Anthony Jackson. (Through Sept. 8.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)FRANK LOCRASTO TRIO (Thursday) With his recent debut, "When You're There" (MaxJazz), the smart young pianist Frank LoCrasto revealed his serious intentions as a bandleader and composer. He has been a fixture in Brooklyn but only rarely a headliner in the West Village, where he leads a trio with Chris Tordini on bass and Tommy Crane on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum.(Chinen)★ FRANCISCO MELA GROUP (Tuesday and Wednesday) Francisco Mela is a subtly dynamic drummer, attuned to the rhythmic depth of his native Cuba but adaptable to seemingly any sort of modern jazz. He records his next album here, with distinguished company: the tenor saxophonist Mark Tuner, the pianist Jason Moran, the guitarist Lionel Loueke and the bassist Larry Grenadier. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592,  bluenote.net; cover, $25 at tables, $15 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)MODE FOR JOE: CELEBRATING THE MUSIC OF JOE HENDERSON (Tomorrow and Sunday) The tenor saxophonist Javon Jackson offers this heartfelt tribute, along with the pianist Doug Carn, the bassist Lonnie Plaxico and the veteran drummer Lenny White, who played on Joe Henderson's records of the early 1970s. Each night will feature an incisive trumpeter: Brian Lynch tomorrow, and Eddie Henderson (not  related to Joe) on Sunday. At 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)★ PAUL MOTIAN, JOE LOVANO, BILL FRISELL (Tuesday through Thursday) On its recent album, "Time and Time Again" (ECM), this marvelous trio advances a distinctive brand of beguiling elasticity. As always, Mr. Motian, a drummer and composer, instigates smartly subversive decisions from Mr. Lovano (on tenor saxophone) and Mr. Frisell (on guitar and electronics); and, as usual, the group sets up here for a two-week run, which will be over in no time. (Through Sept. 16, except on Sept. 10.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)WOLFGANG MUTHSPIEL TRIO (Wednesday) The remarkably proficient Austrian guitarist Wolfgang Muthspiel has a melodious recent album, "Bright Side" (Material Records), featuring this trio, with the twin brothers Matthias and Andreas Pichler on bass and drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)NIGHT OF THE RAVISHED LIMBS (Wednesday) In the first set of this Park Slope series, the alto saxophonist Lisa Parrott leads an adventurous trio, with Chris Lightcap on bass and Gerald Cleaver on drums. Then the tenor saxophonist Keefe Jackson leads Fast Citizens, a Chicago  ensemble with an auspicious recent album, "Ready Everyday" (Delmark). At 8 and 10 p.m., Barbès, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10 a set. (Chinen)CHARLIE PARKER BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION (Tonight and tomorrow night) This tribute to the bebop hero features a worthy alto saxophone inheritor, Vincent Herring. Also on board are the trombonist Dave Gibson, the pianist Rick Germanson, the bassist Marcus McLaurine and the drummer Tony Reedus. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $28. (Chinen)PLAYDATE (Wednesday) The guitarist Amanda Monaco and the pianist Noah Baerman form the core of this whimsically named ensemble, which also includes the bassist Henry Lugo and the drummer Vinnie Sperrazza, along with Wayne Escoffery on tenor saxophone. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $15, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)TED ROSENTHAL AND JAY LEONHART (Thursday) Mr. Rosenthal, an articulate pianist, and Mr. Leonhart, a high-spirited bassist, team up for a concert sure to include some buoyant songbook standards. At 8 p.m., Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing near the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35. (Chinen)BRAD SHEPIK TRIO (Wednesday) On his fine recent album, "Places You Go" (Songlines), the guitarist Brad Shepik spearheads this texture-minded group, with Gary Versace on Hammond B-3 organ and Tom Rainey on drums. At 10 p.m, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)TODD SICKAFOOSE'S BLOOD ORANGE (Thursday) Indie rock is more than a passing influence on this chamberlike group, which features the songs and stalwart bass playing of Todd Sickafoose,  alongside contributions from the violinist Jenny Scheinman, the trumpeter Shane Endsley, the guitarists Mike Gamble and Jonathan Goldberger, and the twin brothers Alan and Mark Ferber on trombone and drums. At 9 and 10 p.m., Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; suggested donation, $5. (Chinen)LOREN STILLMAN ORGAN PROJECT (Thursday) Loren Stillman, a probing young alto saxophonist, leads a quartet featuring Gary Versace on Hammond B-3 organ; the guitarist Nate Radley and the drummer Gerald Cleaver round out the band. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village. (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $12. (Chinen)HELEN SUNG QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) On "Sungbird" (Sunnyside), her self-assured third album, the pianist Helen Sung explores a host of Spanish themes, notably including the work of Isaac Albéniz. She revisits that material here with Steve Wilson on alto saxophone, Richie Goods on bass and Donald Edwards on drums. At 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)KENNY WERNER TRIO (Thursday) Kenny Werner is a well-seasoned pianist who tempers his fearsome technique with equal measures of wisdom and wit. His flexible working trio features Johannes Weidenmuller on bass and Ari Hoenig on drums. At 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $20, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)FOR CHILDRENNEW YORK TUGBOAT RACE AND COMPETITION Tugboats are the tractors of the waterways, Capt. John Doswell said. And like tractors they are dependable, hard working and vital to their industry, though not exactly glamorous.But once a year tugboats have their day in the sun, when the Working Harbor Committee, of which Captain Doswell is the executive director, holds the New York Tugboat Race and Competition. "They get to  show off their stuff," he said.The celebration, on Sunday, begins with a parade of the participants, which will include historic boats like the Urger (1901), a veteran of the Erie Canal, and the W. O. Decker (1930), a tiny tug from the South Street Seaport. The boats will sail from Pier 84, at  44th Street in Hudson River Park, in Clinton, to about 79th Street. They will then turn around and race back. While it may not be quite the Kentucky Derby, Capt. Jerry Roberts, who founded the contest, will provide commentary with Captain Doswell, and the boats in various horsepower categories will win prizes. But the finish line is not the end of the fun."Just as state fairs have tractor pulls, we have the bow-to-bow pushing challenge," Captain Doswell said. "Two boats meet, and at a signal one tries to push the other" (above). The day will also include a line-toss competition, in which each boat's crew will race against the clock to lasso a bollard (a metal post) at the pier. More awards will be given out in categories like best crew member tattoo, best decorated tug and best tug mascot, "whether it's a lizard or a dog," Captain Doswell said.Another similarity between tugs and tractors is that they are irresistible to children. Young nautical enthusiasts can meet the crew of the Urger Friday and Saturday from noon to 6 p.m., when its members  demonstrate line tossing and knot tying,   and discuss just what it's like to be heroes of the harbor.   (Tug parade on Sunday at 10:30 a.m.; race and competition at 11:00 a.m. Free viewing at the pier and along the Hudson River shore; seats on a spectator boat are $35; 212-581-0454, workingharbor.org.) LAUREL GRAEBER 'A CLEARING IN THE FOREST' (Saturday) Boys and girls are forever wandering into enchanted forests in fairy tales, but they don't expect to stumble onto one just off the bustling streets of Manhattan. Thanks to the Peter Jay Sharp Foundation and the Central Park Conservancy, they now have something that comes close. Called the Peter Jay Sharp Children's Glade, it has a natural amphitheater that will be the site of arts programs year round. Saturday "A Clearing in the Forest," a storytelling series, will feature Dan Kitrosser in a presentation geared to Rosh Hashana, the approaching Jewish New Year: tales from Jewish folklore. From 1 to 2 p.m., entrance at 103rd Street and Central Park West, (212) 860-1370, centralparknyc.org/activities. Free.'THE GAZILLION BUBBLE  SHOW' (Friday through Sunday) Children love bubbles, and Fan Yang, in this interactive show, promises not just a gazillion but also some of the largest ever blown (he holds the world record), along with light effects and lasers. Audience members may even find themselves in bubbles of their own. And for those who have been too busy at camp or on vacation to visit the theater, the show has been extended. Although Mr. Yang leaves on Sunday, his wife, Ana, will take over later in the month. (Through Jan. 25.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m. and 2 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m. New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, gazillionbubbleshow.com; $40, $50 and $60.THE GHOSTS OF GREENWICH VILLAGE FAMILY HUNT (Saturday) Many of the objects of pursuit in this scavenger hunt from Watson Adventures may be harder to grasp than those on a more typical list: they come from the spirit world. Places to be visited include secret cemeteries and the haunted homes of Mark Twain and Edgar Allen Poe. Children, who should be 7 or older, must be accompanied by adults, and vice versa. Don't forget your ghostbusting equipment. At 4:30 p.m.; $20.50. Advance ticket purchase is required: (877) 946-4868, Ext. 12; watsonadventures.com.'JOHANNES DOKCHTOR FAUST' (Friday through Sunday, and Thursday) This version of the tale does not come from Marlowe or Goethe but from an obscure 19th-century Czech author known only as A. B., who wrote it for puppet theater. Vit Horejs (pronounced veet HOR-shezz), the founder of the Czechoslovak-American Marionette Theater, has adapted the play with old-fashioned artistry (century-old marionettes), contemporary humor and plenty of pyrotechnics. For children 8 and older, it's a wry introduction to the story of the ultimate bargain. (Through Sept. 9.) Friday, Saturday and Thursday at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 and 8 p.m., Bohemian Hall, 321 East 73rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444. $18; $12 for under 12 and 65+.LABOR DAY BEACH PARTY (Monday) Where can you find a swimming pool that's in a river? At Brooklyn Bridge Park Beach, where the Floating Lady, a cargo barge moored in the East River, has been converted into a 25-meter, 7-lane pool. Open daily through Labor Day for free swimming, the pool will be the site of a goodbye party on Monday, with a barbecue, live music, sand sculpture, games and children's activities. From noon to 7 p.m., between Piers 4 and 5, near Furman and Joralemon Streets, Brooklyn Heights, brooklynbridgepark.org/pool; free.LITTLE AIRPLANE STUDIO TOURS (Tuesday and Thursday) Young television viewers are used to getting their shows with the push of a button, but the new studio tours at Little Airplane Productions will show them that actually producing a series is a bit more complicated. Little Airplane, the company responsible for preschool programs like Nick Jr.'s "Wonder Pets!," Playhouse Disney's "Go, Baby!," Noggin's "Oobi!" and others worthy of exclamation points, will give visitors 3 and older a glimpse of every facet of TV production, including writing, animation and recording voice-overs. The tours, at the company's South Street Seaport Studios in Lower Manhattan, are each limited to 10 participants and will continue indefinitely. At 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.; $10. Reservations required: (212) 965-8999, littleairplane.com.SCIENCE PLAYGROUND (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Few places have more kinetic energy than a playground filled with children, and that principle of physics and many others are just what the Science Playground is all about. Formerly for visitors 6 and older, the playground, a permanent part of the New York Hall of Science, has been revamped with an additional 30,000 square feet of exhibits for preschoolers, including a mirror path, a music path and a sand path. Older children can still enjoy all the original displays, like the giant lever, the Archimedes screw and the windmill seat. (Open through December, weather permitting.) At 47-01 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, (718) 699-0005, nyscience.org. Friday, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Tuesday through Thursday, 9:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Fee is $4 in addition to museum admission: $11; $8 for 2 to 17, 62+; free for members and children under 2; free to all on Sunday from 10 to 11 a.m.SHOFAR FACTORY (Sunday) Horn blowing is common on Dec. 31, but the instruments that are blown for Rosh Hashana, the Jewish New Year, are far more intriguing than those heard in Times Square. The shofar, which resounds in synagogues around the world on this special occasion, is an actual ram's horn, and this workshop at the Jewish Children's Museum will enable young visitors to clean, cut and sand a real one, under expert guidance. And blow it too. At 1 p.m., 792 Eastern Parkway, at Kingston Avenue, Crown Heights, Brooklyn, (718) 467-0600, jcm.museum. $3 in addition to museum admission: $10; free for under 2.TEDDY BEAR PICNIC WEEKEND (Saturday through Monday) Archie, Betty and Veronica, the bears at the Bronx Zoo, may be cute, but they aren't what you would call cuddly — after all, they're grizzlies. But visitors can see them interact with their keepers and celebrate the bears' more huggable toy counterparts at this theme weekend, which will offer storytelling by LuAnn Adams, singalongs with John Farrell and appearances by Ted E. Bear (the zoo's mascot). Children can also take their own stuffed animals to a teddy bear clinic, where they will learn how the zoo cares for real bears. From 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Fordham, (718) 367-1010, bronxzoo.org. Free with admission: $14; $12 for 65+; $10 for 3 to 12; free for under 3. Parking, $10.'THE WORLD IS MY CANVAS' (Through Sunday) Many young people leave their childhoods before they ever leave their countries. But the Children's Museum of the Arts is now offering its visitors an opportunity to view other lands through eyes that are still very young: those of their peers in nations ranging from the Netherlands to North Korea. These visions make up "The World Is My Canvas: Images From the Permanent Collection," 26 works by artists ages 4 to 15. While some shows of international children's art underscore the effects of disaster on young lives, this one, filled with colorful, detailed and often surprisingly sophisticated work, emphasizes joy. From noon to 5 p.m., 182 Lafayette Street, near Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 274-0986, cmany.org; $9; free for 65+.LAUREL GRAEBER 
