SEAN KINGSTON"Sean Kingston" (Beluga Heights/Epic)Sean Kingston is 17, and he already has a summer smash, "Beautiful Girls" in which he explains his romantic entanglements using a vocal processor and a sample from Ben E. King's "Stand By Me." His girlfriend is "too beautiful, girl, that's why it'll never work," though it seems the problem goes back a while: "Back in '99, watching movies all the time/Oh, when I went away for doing my first crime/And I never thought that we was gonna see each other." (It's so hard to find a good woman, especially when you're a 9-year-old criminal.) The whole situation leaves him "suicidal, suicidal," though some radio stations play the version that leaves him "in denial, in denial," and still others just erase those eight semi-controversial syllables altogether.In any case he's got a big hit, and now comes his debut album, in which this singer (and occasional rapper) tries to find himself a niche somewhere between Rihanna and Akon. His producer, Jonathan (J. R.) Rotem, clearly isn't shy about reworking the "Beautiful Girls" formula: "Me Love," another song from the album, updates Led Zeppelin's "D'yer Mak'er"; "Got No Shorty" borrows from "I Ain't Got Nobody" (which was a hit for Louis Prima and, later, David Lee Roth); "I Can Feel It" samples "In the Air Tonight," by Phil Collins.Given all that, this is a surprisingly awkward album, with too many underbaked love songs and unmenacing threats. (For example: "Dem dis Sean Kingston, dem gonna get a scar.") He spent his childhood in Jamaica, which gave him his stage name and his command of patois, but his version of thug love ("Girl, I know it's rough, but come with me/We can take a trip to the 'hood") makes it sound as if he's trying too hard, or not hard enough. He's better in lovably ridiculous songs like "Your Sister": "If I'm wrong, oh I don't wanna be right/I kissed your sister last night/It ain't my fault, I guess your sister's my type." (It evokes Beck's R&B parody "Debra," though that may be a coincidence.) Still, good news for Rihanna and Akon and all the rest: This breezy hip-pop thing is trickier than it seems.  KELEFA SANNEHCOMMON"Finding Forever" (Geffen)Common isn't a flashy rapper. His tone is forthright and matter of fact, and he rattles off his rhymes steadily in their chosen meters, without sudden emphases or bursts of speed. Yet Common's sheer straightforwardness lets him transcend hip-hop's factions. He has the social consciousness of a collegiate underground rapper, but he also has Top 10 sales figures; his previous album, "Be," from 2005, entered the pop charts at No. 2. He's genuinely respectful toward women without denying his lust. And he's not the kind of hip-hop purist who would disdain a pop hook.Common's new album, "Finding Forever," revisits his favorite subjects: African-American struggles, romance, the state of hip-hop, elegies for predecessors and hometown Chicago pride. Common describes his work as "street radio for unsung heroes" in "The People," a tract on the new album that veers between a complaint about not getting a Grammy Award and a grand mission statement.He warns about vanity in "Drivin' Me Wild" and sympathizes with a drug hustler and a stripper trying to get by in "Misunderstood" (backed by Nina Simone's voice). In "The Game" he mocks rappers who "Came in the game as gun clappers/From weak rhymes to clothing line to an actress."To keep from sounding didactic, Common has a counterbalance: the lush, tuneful backup devised by Kanye West (the album's executive producer, main track producer and guest rapper) and others. Rich strings, cooing voices and keyboards hinting at 1970s soul suffuse the album with aspiration, while in love songs like "I Want You" (produced by will.i.am) Common sounds genuinely forlorn. Common has a lot on his mind, but he and Mr. West understand that his messages travel best when the ride is smooth. JON PARELESCHARLIE HUNTER TRIO"Mistico" (Fantasy)Ruggedness suits Charlie Hunter, a groove-minded guitarist known for his distinctly ambidextrous technique. On "Mistico," his first album for the Fantasy label, he rarely reaches for a dazzling run where a juicy riff will do the trick. His main pursuit seems to be the unpretentious logic of a working band and the freedom to do with it what he pleases.His current partners are Erik Deutsch, on acoustic and Fender Rhodes pianos as well as Casiotone keyboard, and Simon Lott, on drums. Mr. Deutsch is an especially valuable resource here, as a solo commentator and, much more important, an accompanist. On "Special Shirt" he alternates between modish camp and a species of saloon piano, subtly shaping the mood; on "Speakers Built In" he finds real use for some usually ill-advised synthesizer sounds.As usual Mr. Hunter is a homespun marvel, soloing pithily over his own bass lines and chordal midrange. But his proficiency isn't intended as the focus. "Mistico" often seems purposeful in its evocation of jam bands like the Benevento-Russo Duo and Medeski, Martin & Wood. So while chin stroking would be one welcome answer to the music, dancing — no matter how gracefully — might be even better. NATE CHINENBEHEMOTH"The Apostasy" (Century Media)The new album from the Polish metal band Behemoth is called "The Apostasy," and it ends with a ferocious song called "Christgrinding Avenue," inspired by Via Dolorosa in Jerusalem. In that track the band's vocalist and guitarist, known as Nergal, makes a plain-spoken vow: "I shall complete the devil's work." Certainly that sounds pretty apostatic.But among metal fans Nergal's religious apostasy is much less shocking than his musical one. When he formed Behemoth in 1991, he embraced the eerie, atmospheric sound of black metal. But since then Behemoth's music has grown more propulsive and explosive, thanks partly to the addition of the virtuoso drummer Inferno, and Nergal has evolved from a croaker into a growler. (Nergal has also become a reliable purveyor of hair-trigger guitar riffs and maelstromic solos.) All of this pushed Behemoth across the fine line that separates black metal from its slightly more mainstream cousin, death metal. Some old fans weren't amused, but they have been replaced — and then some — by new ones, some of whom like to split the difference by using a hybrid term, blackened death metal.Now Behemoth is huge, relatively speaking. (When you're judging the popularity of blasphemous Poles whose music bears a faint resemblance to sustained bombardment, special standards apply.) Nergal and his band mates are spending the summer terrorizing or puzzling audiences on the Ozzfest tour, and last week "The Apostasy" made an appearance on the Billboard album chart, albeit at No. 149.It's a strong, vivid album, suspended between the clarity of Inferno's brute-force pummeling and the obscurity of Nergal's esoteric interests, which range from Kali (the Hindu goddess) to Shelley (the atheist). To underscore the sense of ritual, a small choir sometimes sings in unison with Nergal's growls; in "At the Left Hand ov God," the mayhem gives way to a chanted prayer to Samael.There's a startling foray into melodrama ("Inner Sanctum," which sounds suspiciously like a pep talk), but the rest of this album is ruthless without being single-minded. This is the sound of a brutal but curious band figuring out what comes after renunciation. KELEFA SANNEHDuring their exultant encore at Madison Square Garden on Wednesday night, the Police played songs from their first and last albums, released only five years apart. For the few people in the arena who weren't singing along, it was a reminder of the actual brevity of this band's reign. And when Sting altered the lyrics to one of the older songs, singing "Welcome to the Andy Summers show" in a verse of "So Lonely," it was a reminder of why ages passed before this reunion tour.Surely Sting was sincere in his plugging of Mr. Summers, the band's ingenious guitarist. He must have meant it, too, when he repeated the line with the name of Stewart Copeland, the band's wickedly cunning drummer. (Right?) But the Police were rarely such a magnanimous cooperative in their day. And in the two decades or so since, Sting has basked contentedly in the spotlight,  while his former band mates tended to quieter solo careers.The tour, which has been going all summer, bypasses this drama to get to the heart of what was there, and still is, among the three players: a lean and flexible group dynamic, spring-loaded with vital tensions. It seems the only rigid thing about the reincarnated Police is their set list, which hasn't changed substantially from one city to the next. (Sting has sung those modified lyrics on more than one occasion, too.)Some sly liberties were taken with the songs, though not with respect to melody. On "Synchronicity II," strange new chords underscored a spirit of portent, and Mr. Copeland periodically pulled back the tempo, imposing an artificial restraint. "The Bed's Too Big Without You" opened into an extended jam that was loose-limbed but inspired. Less productively, there was the mellowing out of "Truth Hits Everybody," which was originally a jittery punk screed and now resembles a sober reflection.At times it really was the Andy Summers show. He took a handful of engrossing solos, including a customarily scabrous wail in "Driven to Tears." His improvisations were full of small but surprising turns, conveying much more substance than flash. He's a better musician now than he was during the band's original run, and it shows especially at the core of a song, where his playing provides the guts and the glue.On a few tunes Mr. Copeland climbed onto a riser to play a rack of cymbals, bells and chimes, as well as several timpanis and an enormous gong. But his chief calling was naturally behind the drum kit, where he got mileage out of each twittering hi-hat ellipsis. On "Every Little Thing She Does Is Magic," there was excitement simply in his backbeat on the snare, which crackled like a recurring pistol report.Sting was in superb voice as a singer, and in fine form as a bassist — he guides the band from both extremes of register — and he appeared almost suspiciously well preserved. So did his songs, which of course are the engine behind the Police's success, now as then. Because even the mega-hits hew to a fundamental sound, there was little differentiation in the show between what were once singles and B-sides. Except perhaps the reception: obviously there were bigger cheers for "Roxanne" than for "Voices Inside My Head.""We have a long history with this city," Sting said early in the show, pointing out that the band had played at CBGB in 1978. "Eventually we played Madison Square Garden," he added nonchalantly. He didn't mention that the last time the Police performed in New York City was in 1983 at Shea Stadium, on what would be their acrimonious final tour. Why would he? Some history is better left unsaid, especially when it's being revised.Zack De La Rocha is the lead rapper and agitator and sermonizer of Rage Against the Machine, but on Saturday night at Randalls Island he barely talked between songs. Then, near the end of the set, came the speech everyone was anticipating.On April 29, during this rap-rock band's reunion concert at the Coachella festival, Mr. De La Rocha gave a speech accusing the Bush administration of war crimes and said, "They should be hung and tried and shot." (Hmm. In that order?) A clip found its way to the Fox News program "Hannity & Colmes," which was not overstocked with Rage Against the Machine fans. The on-screen headline read, "Rock grp 'Rage Against the Machine' says Bush admin should be shot."Sean Hannity seemed to suggest that the Secret Service should be alerted. Ann Coulter, a guest, got in a good quip ("Has anybody checked in with a Flock of Seagulls to see what their position is on Bush?"), then delivered a final verdict, "They're losers, their fans are losers, and there's a lot of violence coming from the left wing."On Saturday night Mr. De La Rocha responded. He attacked the "fascist" Fox News pundits for "claiming that we said that the president should be assassinated." As the crowd shouted its approval, he continued, "No: he should be brought to trial as a war criminal and hung and shot. That's what we said." Despite the insistence on due process, this still isn't a position any mainstream politician  would endorse. But that's precisely the point: At a time when unimpeachable causes and pragmatic endorsements are the norm, it's nice to be reminded that rock stars can get political without sounding like politicians.The occasion for this brief oration was a traveling hip-hop festival. Two of them, actually: On Saturday night, the nostalgic hip-hop tour Rock the Bells came to town, with a second stage courtesy of the indie-rap tour Paid Dues. (A second show was scheduled for Sunday night; guerillaunion.com has more tour dates.) The rest of the lineup was strictly hip-hop, though most of the rappers shared the kind of rebellious energy that attracts rock fans. Not coincidentally African-Americans were a tiny minority in the crowd; cargo-shorts wearers most certainly were not.On a bill with Rage Against the Machine everyone else was an opening act. Not that the other rappers went unappreciated. The second-biggest draw was the Wu-Tang Clan, still mourning the 2004 death of O. D. B., and still unspooling  weird rhymes for a crowd that remembered when the Clan was an unlikely commercial juggernaut. The set ended with a complete version of "Triumph," an unwieldy and mesmerizing single from 1997; there's no refrain, just nine wordy, erudite verses that seem to go on forever.Although Chang Weisberg, one of the organizers, has called Rock the Bells "a window into the future" of hip-hop culture, on Saturday it seemed more like a time capsule. The bill included some of the self-consciously bohemian rappers who came of age in the 1990s: Mos Def, Talib Kweli, the Roots and Pharaohe Monch. There was also a genial but rather perfunctory set from the veteran Los Angeles act Cypress Hill, and another from Public Enemy, which endures despite some evident personal friction."I was in the middle of something, Chuck," said Flavor Flav, when Chuck D tried to start a song too soon. Did Chuck D wince in response?The much smaller Paid Dues stage wasn't for rookies either; it was for veterans of the indie-rap circuit, most of whom know how to work a crowd, no matter the size. Slug, best known as half of the duo Atmosphere, declaimed his lyrics while grinning and gesticulating; Sage Francis did something similar, only with more politics and less grinning.Murs, the rapper who organizes Paid Dues, performed with Slug and with his own Living Legends crew. None of this seemed like "the future" of hip-hop, but both stages pointed to a possible future for rock-friendly rappers who have outgrown (or never fit) radio: a summer on the road, entertaining the cargo-shorts crowd. There are worse ways to make a living.As for Rage Against the Machine, who knows how long this reunion will last; the members haven't committed to anything beyond a series of live dates. During the hiatus the guitarist Tom Morello, the drummer Brad Wilk  and the bassist Tim Commerford played together in Audioslave, but on Saturday night they seemed glad to be playing the old songs again. Maybe the break did everybody  good, including those of us who aren't in the band; no doubt the old favorites wouldn't have sounded as fresh if these guys had been flogging them nonstop since the 1990s.The formula is simple and elegant: Mr. Commerford gives these songs all the melody and muscle they need, which leaves Mr. Morello free to do as he pleases. Sometimes he amplifies the bass line by doubling it; sometimes he adds scabrous counterrhythms and countermelodies; sometimes he just makes cool noises. (At one point his pings and squiggles blended pleasantly, if ominously, with the sound of an ambulance floating past on the Triborough Bridge.) Meanwhile Mr. De La Rocha stands and squats and paces, simmering during the quiet parts and boiling over during the loud ones.Fiery indignation suits Mr. De La Rocha, and it suits this band, which even now embodies the leanness and purposefulness of the righteous guerillas in his lyrics. During "Guerilla Radio," a fan favorite, the crowd changed along with Mr. De La Rocha: "What better place than here? What better time than now?" Or, in this case, later.CLASSICALFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.OperaASTON MAGNA (Tonight and tomorrow) This festival, devoted to period-instrument performance, continues tonight at Bard College with "Dido and Aeneas," Purcell's tragic opera. Daniel Stepner, artistic director of the festival, leads a chamber orchestra and a cast including Deborah Rentz-Moore as Dido. The concert will be repeated tomorrow in the Berkshires. Tonight at 8, Olin Hall, Bard College, Route 9G, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7425; tomorrow at 5 p.m., Daniel Arts Center, Simon's Rock College, Great Barrington, Mass., (413) 528-3595; astonmagna.org; $30 to $40.(Vivien Schweitzer)★ BARD SUMMERSCAPE (Tomorrow through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) Alexander Zemlinsky's opulently orchestrated music was eclipsed by modernism in the last century, but Leon Botstein has recently been championing this worthy Viennese composer. At Bard, Mr. Botstein is conducting new productions of "The Dwarf" and "A Florentine Tragedy," one-act operas based on works by Oscar Wilde. Both productions are intelligently conceived by the director Olivier Tambosi and feature stylish sets by the design team of McDermott & McGough. The attractive and talented casts, including James Johnson as a commanding Simone in "A Florentine Tragedy," and Jeffrey Dowd as a poignant Dwarf, do full justice to these tales of heartbreak and narcissism. Also "The Sorcerer," the Gilbert and Sullivan opera, begins performances tonight and runs through next weekend. Zemlinsky is tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m. "The Sorcerer" is tonight, Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m.; tomorrow at 3 p.m.; Sunday at 7 p.m.;  Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7900, bard.edu/summerscape; $35 to $85. (Schweitzer)★ GLIMMERGLASS OPERA (Tonight through Tuesday, and Thursday) No matter what route a New Yorker chooses in driving upstate to Cooperstown, it always seems to take exactly four hours. But it is well worth the drive to experience this acclaimed summer festival, which boasts an absolutely ideal opera house, seating just 900, and beautiful environs. This summer, in a fascinating project, the company presents four quite different operas based on the timeless Orpheus and Eurydice myth. The works range from Monteverdi's "Orfeo," first presented in 1607 and generally considered the first great opera, to Philip Glass's "Orphée," inspired by Cocteau's 1949 film of the same title. Gluck's elegantly restrained "Orphée et Eurydice," in the version prepared by Berlioz, is on the schedule. But so is Offenbach's tuneful comic take on the myth, "Orpheus in the Underworld," performed in English translation, an operetta that irreverently parodies Gluck's august masterpiece. Gluck, tonight and Thursday at 8 p.m., Monday at 2 p.m.; Offenbach, tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Tuesday at 2 p.m.; Glass, tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Monteverdi, Sunday at 3 p.m. (sold out); Alice Busch Opera Theater, Route 80, north of Cooperstown, N.Y., (607) 547-2255, glimmerglass.org; $41 to $117. (Anthony Tommasini)Classical MusicBARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) This converted coffee barge, docked on the Brooklyn side of the East River, has become one of the best places to hear chamber music in New York. The Manhattan Chamber Symphonee, led by Vince Lee, is taking over the barge for a weekend devoted mostly to concertos, including the Beethoven Piano Concerto No. 4 (with Maxim Pakhomov) and Tchaikovsky's Variations on a Rococo Theme (with Andrey Tchekmazov as the solo cellist) tonight.  Concertos by Vivaldi, Haydn and Mozart, as well as a showpiece by Sarasate (with Wendy Warner as the solo cellist, and Mark Peskanov as the violinist) will be performed tomorrow night and Sunday. Tomorrow afternoon Katya Mihailova, a pianist, plays works by Bach, Schubert and Piazzolla. And on Wednesday Jie Chen plays a recital of Mozart, Schumann and Schubert piano sonatas, as well as Busoni's transcription of the Bach Chaconne. Tonight and Wednesday night at 8, tomorrow at 1 and 8 p.m.,  Sunday at 4 p.m.,  Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35 to $50, with discounts available for students and 65+. (Allan Kozinn)CARAMOOR (Tonight and Sunday) This sultry summer music festival continues with the estimable Mitsuko Uchida playing Beethoven's last five piano sonatas in two programs tonight and  Sunday, with a little Schoenberg tonight. Tonight at 8, Sunday at 4:30 p.m., Katonah, N.Y.,  (914) 232-1252, caramoor.org; $15 to $45. (Bernard Holland)★ PAUL JACOBS (Thursday) If you harbor doubts that an instrument that uses digital samples and speakers instead of bellows and pipes can produce the grand, resounding timbres of a traditional pipe organ, it's worth a visit to Trinity Church to hear its new Marshall & Ogletree instrument. The church is making that easy with Conservatory Stars, a series of recitals by fine young organists that closes with this recital by Paul Jacobs performing Julius Reubke's "Great Sonata on the 94th Psalm," Bach's Trio Sonata in G (BWV 530) and Reger's "Fantasy and Fugue on B-A-C-H". At 1 p.m., Broadway at Wall Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 602-0800, trinitywallstreet.org; free. (Kozinn)★ MARLBORO MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday) The chamber music delights continue this weekend at Marlboro, where hierarchies are ignored, and rising stars and musical legends play side by side. Tonight is the annual benefit concert, with all proceeds going to Marlboro institutions. The program includes a string quintet by Boccherini; Stravinsky's Cantata on Medieval English Verses, with the soprano Junko Watanabe; and Reger's String Sextet in F. Works tomorrow include a Mozart Quartet and Kodaly's Serenade (Op. 12). A highlight on Sunday is Schumann's "Spanische Liebeslieder," with the baritone Thomas Meglioranza and the pianist Richard Goode, who is also one of Marlboro's artistic directors. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30, Sunday at 2:30 p.m., Marlboro College, Marlboro, Vt., (802) 254-2394, marlboromusic.org; $15 to $35; outdoor seats, $5. (Schweitzer)★ MAVERICK CONCERTS (Tomorrow and Sunday) This concert series near Woodstock, N.Y., offers its performances in an open-backed barn that allows the sounds of nature to mingle with the music. This weekend is devoted to Beethoven string quartets, with the Tokyo String Quartet offering the Quartets in F (Op. 18, No. 1), F minor (Op. 95, the "Serioso") and E flat (Op. 74, the "Harp") tomorrow night, and the St. Lawrence String Quartet playing two late works, the Quartet in F (Op. 135) and the Quartet in C sharp minor (Op. 131), on Sunday. Tomorrow at 6 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Maverick Concert Hall, Maverick Road, between Routes 28 and 375, West Hurley, N.Y., (845) 679-8217, maverickconcerts.org; $20; $5 for students. (Kozinn)★ MOSTLY MOZART FESTIVAL (Tonight, tomorrow, Tuesday and Wednesday) This revitalized festival continues tonight with the final installment of the St. Lawrence String Quartet's survey of the late Beethoven quartets. Tomorrow the festival orchestra, with Louis Langrée conducting, recreates a mammoth all-Beethoven concert from the composer's day, performed in two parts; the programs include the Sixth and Fifth Symphonies, the Fourth Piano Concerto (with Jeffrey Kahane), excerpts from the Mass in C and the rousing "Choral" Fantasy. And that's not all! On Tuesday Mr. Langrée and the orchestra are back with Ravel's famous Pavane, the Fauré Requiem and, with the elegant pianist Marc-André Hamelin, Mozart's ebullient Concerto No. 17 in G. On Wednesday that program is half-repeated, with the Ravel and Mozart replaced by excerpts from Rachmaninoff's Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom. Mr. Hamelin returns late Wednesday evening for a recital in the informal and hugely popular "A Little Night Music" series, playing Mozart and Schumann. Whew. Got that straight? St. Lawrence Quartet, tonight at 8, Rose Theater, Broadway at 60th Street ($30 to $60); Beethoven, tomorrow at 4 and 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center ($35 to $85); Fauré Requiem, Tuesday and Wednesday at 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall ($35 to $85); "A Little Night Music," Wednesday at 10:30 p.m., Kaplan Penthouse, 165 West 65th Street ($38). (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org.(Tommasini)★ NORFOLK CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tonight and tomorrow night) A program of Mozart and Brahms, courtesy of an eminent roster of musicians, including the pianist André-Michel Schub, will be presented tonight at this summer festival run by the Yale School of Music. Many Brahms scholars assert that the somber and volatile Piano Quartet in C minor explores the composer's torment over his unrequited love for Clara Schumann. By contrast, the program also offers Mozart's Flute Quartet in D and Oboe Quartet in F, the works of a cocky young composer seemingly without a care in the world. Tomorrow evening Les Idées Heureuses, a baroque ensemble of musicians and dancers that had a big success with the Norfolk audience in 2004, returns for a program of French works by Lully, Couperin, Monteclair and Rameau. At 8, Ellen Battell Stoeckel Estate, Routes 44 and 272, Norfolk, Conn.,  (860) 542-3000, yale.edu/norfolk; $10 to $45.(Tommasini)SERIAL UNDERGROUND (Monday through Wednesday) If you've had enough of outdoor summer concerts, head underground for some experimental sounds at the Cornelia Street Café. The lineup includes a three-day run of "The Gold Standard," a piano theater work by the playwright Ed Schmidt and the composer-pianist Jed Distler. On Tuesday a performance on steel resonator guitars will complement Stephanie Gray's videos of New York; Wednesday will see the fruits of a collaboration between Tim Reardon, a filmmaker, and Patrick Foley, a composer. Monday at 6 p.m., Tuesday and Wednesday at 8:30 p.m., 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 663-1967, composerscollab.org; $20; $15 for students, with a one-drink minimum. (Schweitzer)★ SUMMERGARDEN (Sunday) The third of four concerts by the virtuosic young musicians of the Juilliard School is devoted to chamber works not previously performed in New York. The composers are Ton de Leeuw, Narong Prangcharoen, Eric Tanguy, Pablo Ortiz, Ton Bruynèl and Roberto Sierra. At 8 p.m., Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden, Museum of Modern Art, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; free. (Kozinn)TANGLEWOOD (Tonight through Sunday, and Wednesday) James Levine is not traveling much this summer, but he is busy with his Boston Symphony at its summer retreat in the Berkshires. Tonight Mr. Levine and his orchestra  offer music by Beethoven, Ravel and John Harbison, with Richard Goode as pianist in the Mozart Concerto No. 18. Tomorrow, filling in for an ailing Edo de Waart, he leads an all-Dvorak evening: the "New World" Symphony and the Cello Concerto with Yo-Yo Ma. Ludovic Morlot conducts on Sunday, with Janine Jansen as soloist in the Mendelssohn Violin Concerto. On Wednesday Pierre-Laurent Aimard, a French pianist of eclectic curiosity, performs works by Schumann and Bach, among others. Tonight, tomorrow night and Wednesday night at 8:30; Sunday at 2:30 p.m.; Lenox, Mass., (888) 266-1200, tanglewood.org; $9 to $99. (Holland)"The Grosse Fuge will sound better after a glass of wine," Geoff Nuttall, the St. Lawrence String Quartet's gregarious violinist, joked before the ensemble performed Beethoven's String Quartet in B-flat (Op. 130) in the Kaplan Penthouse on Wednesday, part of the Mostly Mozart Festival's Little Night Music series.But any listener hoping to soften the angular edges of Beethoven's wildly startling fugue with a couple of glasses of red would have found that even tipsiness offered no shield against the St. Lawrence's sharp, blistering attack.Written as the final movement of the Op. 130 Quartet, the fugue so unnerved some listeners at the time of its debut that Beethoven's publisher asked him to provide a more easily digestible final movement, which he did. But some ensembles, like the St. Lawrence on Wednesday, now play the Grosse Fuge instead of what Mr. Nuttall called its "charming, simple and lighthearted" replacement.Stravinsky, who loved the Grosse Fuge, described it as an "absolutely contemporary piece of music that will be contemporary forever." The St. Lawrence certainly didn't blunt the agony of the jarring, anguished counterpoint of the fugue (completed a year before the composer's death in 1827), playing with an almost disturbing intensity that held the audience spellbound. The performance bristled with the electricity the ensemble has become known for, although on Wednesday Mr. Nuttall was the only original member of the St. Lawrence present.The violist Daniel Panner substituted for Lesley Robertson (another founding member), who is on maternity leave. The other current members are the cellist Christopher Costanza and the most recent addition, Scott St. John, who played first violin on Wednesday (and who will be alternating with Mr. Nuttall in that position for the rest of the festival).In a space as intimate as the Penthouse, where listeners are only a few feet from the musicians, every physical gesture and musical nuance is exposed. This was an almost impeccable, powerful performance, with entrances coordinated with absolute precision, sharply etched phrases and carefully judged silences. It wasn't an interpretation notable for beauty of tone or seductive warmth, but one remarkable instead for its poise, edgy intensity and stark contrasts.Before the performance Mr. Nuttall said the Grosse Fuge sounds more contemporary than Osvaldo Golijov's "Azul," a new cello concerto that had its New York premiere this week. He had a good point: Mr. Golijov's attractive work seems easy listening in light of the emotional assault of Beethoven's quartet.To the ardent pianophiles who flock to the International Keyboard Institute & Festival at Mannes College the New School for Music every summer, the Canadian virtuoso Marc-André Hamelin is royalty. Never mind that he played in New York most recently in late March, or that he will make his debut at the Mostly Mozart Festival next week. The line of patrons waiting to hear him in the Mannes Concert Hall on Saturday extended down a staircase,  across the lobby and through a locker-lined hallway.The concert began with two Haydn sonatas featured on a delectable recording Mr. Hamelin recently issued on the Hyperion label. The precision and clarity he brought to the brisk outer movements of the Sonata No. 23 in F suited the music's scampering gait; in between came an exquisitely molded adagio, during which time seemed to stand still. Mr. Hamelin's phrasing in the Sonata No. 41 in B flat underscored the bold peculiarity of Haydn's syncopated rhythms and unpredictable melodies."Sonata in a State of Jazz," composed by the French pianist Alexis Weissenberg in 1982, offered formidable Cubist allusions to popular forms. A tartly dissonant tango in three-quarter time was punctuated with glimmers of nostalgic melody; a spiky Charleston emphasized sharp-edged rhythms. Dense harmonies in a blues-inspired movement suggested a young Schoenberg brooding over the keys in an after-hours Harlem joint, while complex lines in the closing samba section swayed like a drunken mathematician.An account of Chopin's Barcarolle, Op. 60, was a thing of breathtaking beauty, every texture and transition sensitively judged. But despite a tender introduction and passionate conclusion, some passages in the Ballade No. 3 sounded starched and curt.Mr. Hamelin performed two works of his own devising. The Etude No. 8, "Erlkönig," was a vivid, Lisztian setting of a Goethe poem. (In his introductory comments Mr. Hamelin noted that the melody closely adhered to the German verse;  a shame that printed texts were not provided.) The Etude No. 7 was a skillful arrangement for left hand of Tchaikovsky's "Lullaby."Godowsky's Symphonic Metamorphoses on Johann Strauss Jr.'s "Wine, Women and Song" concluded the program on a note of flamboyant excess. Far more charming  —  and far gentler to its source  —  was Mr. Hamelin's sole encore: "En Avril à Paris," a selection from the obscure Belgian album "Mr. Nobody Plays Trenet." The Trenet in question, of course, was  the French singer Charles. And Mr. Nobody? That turned out to be Mr. Weissenberg.One day in the early 1960s, a young man who worked as driver and baggage handler for a group called Johnny Jenkins and the Pinetoppers lugged its instruments into the studios of Stax Records in Memphis,  where the band was scheduled for a recording session. As it happened, the young man sang too — in a husky tenor — and spent his idle hours that afternoon begging people to hand him a mike.By the end of the day, no one had given him a shot, and the label's founder Jim Stewart  felt guilty. Mr. Stewart was simply that kind of guy. The task of hearing out the eager aspirant fell begrudgingly to Steve Cropper, guitarist for Booker T. & the MGs, one of the label's popular bands. As Mr. Cropper tells it in "Respect Yourself: The Stax Records Story," a "Great Performances" documentary  tonight on PBS: "He started singing 'These Arms of Mine,' and I know my hair lifted out about three inches. I couldn't believe this guy's voice." It belonged to Otis Redding.Redding's death in a plane crash in   Wisconsin in 1967 — he was just 26    —  was one of the many setbacks the Stax label would endure.  Ill-conceived distribution deals and the ouster of Clive Davis at CBS, with whom Stax had a fortunate relationship, were others. By the mid-1970s, the label was in  bankruptcy and fated for an undeserved obscurity among the wider world beyond the  fans of R&B.Stax, eventually owned by the marketing innovator Al Bell,  gave birth to the Memphis Sound — a funkier, less refined analogue to Detroit soul — and some of the most influential recordings of the 1960s: "Soul Man," "Respect" (written by Redding),  "(Sittin' on) the Dock of the Bay"  and  "Who's Making Love?," among many others. It has not, however, shared Motown Records' sustained celebrity. That this constitutes one of the crimes of American music history is an argument "Respect Yourself" makes by the pure virtue of its narrative.The label came to life in the late 1950s when Mr. Stewart, a white bank teller, and his sister Estelle Axton took over an old movie theater in a Memphis neighborhood  that was becoming predominantly African-American, with plans to use it as a studio. Mr. Stewart's interest in music initially did not extend beyond country. But, as he points out here, "The wind blew in, and we were smart enough not to fight it."The wind came in the form of R&B, and Stax  helped create a hurricane.  Stax  completely ignored segregation in a city where the public pool chose to shut down rather than abide by an order to allow blacks and whites to swim together. Booker T. & the MGs was a marriage between Booker T. Jones and other black musicians and the white members of the Mar-Keys. They met and began talking at the Stax record shop, run by Ms. Axton, which operated next to the studio in what had been the movie theater's concession stand.With the  exceptions of people like Otis Redding and Isaac Hayes, many of the Stax artists remain unfamiliar to the public now, a problem that cannot be explained solely by the label's twisted financial fortunes. While Carla Thomas and her father, Rufus, for instance, are fairly well known, many Americans would be hard pressed to cite a single one of their songs or identify either of them in an MTV lineup.There is a poignant story to be told in the absence of these artists from our collective cultural memory and, regrettably, "Respect Yourself" leaves it aside. Still, this documentary provides an essential account of  auteurism  in one of American music's greatest eras.RESPECT YOURSELFThe Stax Records StoryOn most PBS stations  tonight (check local listings).David Horn, executive producer; Robert Gordon and Morgan Neville, producers/directors; John Walker, series producer for music; Bill O'Donnell, director of program development. Produced by Tremolo Productions, Concord Music Group and Thirteen/WNET New York.ON a recent Saturday, as the sun set in broad pink strokes over Brooklyn,  about 300 people gathered on a roof to watch a movie. But first there was music: a guitarist and a Korean singer performed, their images projected on the enormous screen. When the sky darkened and birds dove chirping around the "theater," the audience settled in for "Crossing the Line," a 2006 documentary about an American soldier who defected to North Korea at the height of the cold war. Afterward the film's director, Daniel Gordon, who  had flown in specially from  England,  did a Q&A,  and then there was a  courtyard reception with $1 drinks.Only in New York, said Joy Doumis, 27, a television producer who came with her boyfriend and fellow  producer,  Jeremy Hammond, 29. They brought an elaborate homemade picnic of sandwiches, gazpacho, home-brewed wheat ale and Italian ices. "It's one of the things that I appreciate most about the city," Ms. Doumis said of the series, Rooftop Films.Summer moviegoing is associated with temperature:  the hot blockbuster in  the icy air-conditioned theater. But in New York the season also brings movies with another setting that is, in its own way,  equally cool:  the outdoors.Films are shown in parks, gardens, pools, museums and on piers. Most screenings are free, or at least cheaper than at the local multiplex, and they often feature other entertainment, like music. And on a summer evening, gathering under the stars — or  the streetlights — to commune with friends and strangers on blankets and folding chairs in the glow of a classic film, has an undeniable romance, not least because it's a truly cheap date. It's like the urban version of a drive-in — except, of course, that it's a walk-up.Literally, in the case of Rooftop Films. Moviegoers climbed   several flights of stairs, weaving their way through the Old American Can Factory, a former industrial complex  near the Gowanus Canal that now houses artists' studios, to see "Crossing the Line." Rooftop Films also shows movies on the lawn of the Automotive High School in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and in various locations around Manhattan.Held regularly since 1997, when it began on an East Village apartment roof, and organized  like a festival, Rooftop has become a destination for independent shorts, documentaries and features, the kind that might one day win honors at Sundance or Cannes. Rooftop receives 2,500 submissions annually from all over the world, said Mark Elijah Rosenberg, the co-founder and artistic director, and aims for  unusual programs, like one showcasing filmmakers' home movies. Tonight it is showing shorts from an independent animation festival at Automotive High School; an afterparty with an open bar follows. Take that, Bryant Park.That lawn, of course, is the site of the city's best-known outdoor cinema series, the HBO-sponsored  screenings held on Mondays in the summer months  since 1993. Now the park green easily reaches its capacity — about 10,000 people — for  vintage comedies, musicals and other classics. (Next week's  film is the 1949 "All the King's Men.") The event has its own eccentric  traditions, like the HBO dance (a stand-up wiggle done to the network's theme song, played before the movie) and the mad dash to get a spot when the lawn opens at 5 p.m. (worth watching  on YouTube).Now there are screenings every night of the week  in dozens of locations  around town. The McCarren Park Pool, the enormous former swimming pool in Williamsburg, inaugurated a film series last year, sponsored by The L Magazine and showing hipster-approved flicks like "Repo Man" (this Tuesday). "Passport Fridays" started three years ago at the Queens Museum of Art, in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park; each internationally oriented event begins with dancing and music from local bands. Tonight is Indian night: DJ Rekha, of Basement Bhangra, will spin records, accompanied by bhangra dancers and live drumming, before a screening of "The Thread," a 2006 Hindi drama.Socrates Sculpture Park, the outdoor museum in Long Island City, Queens, that has a stunning view of the midtown Manhattan skyline, also has a program meant to highlight the ethnic and cultural diversity of its borough. Building on a theme — this year's is music, though sometimes the theme correlates with the sculpture on view — the organizers choose a country for each week's screening.  David Schwartz and Livia Bloom, curators at the Museum of the Moving Image in nearby Astoria, select a movie, and the organizers pick a musical act and, perhaps most important, a local restaurant to match. Entrance is free, and the food is usually less than $10, said Shawn Leonardo, the park's special events coordinator. Though Brazilian night is by far the most popular, the audiences are diverse and adventurous, Mr. Schwartz said. "It's not just a Greek audience for Greek films," he said.If Socrates and the other outdoor cinemas don't have the cultish following of Bryant Park — "We are very laid back here," Mr. Leonardo said — neither do they have the crowding. The  Socrates and McCarren screenings may draw 1,000 people,   a Queens Museum show 500.  It's still possible to arrive at the last minute and get a spot.Audience participation with the dance and musical acts is encouraged. "I remember one night, during Italian night, the entire park was singing 'Moon River' right at sunset," Mr. Leonardo said. That kind of camaraderie is one reason that people turn up."I was intrigued by the setting, and by being with people that I otherwise spend time walking past," said Kerry O'Shaughnessy, 38, a book project editor from Park Slope, Brooklyn, who came to see "Crossing the Line" at Rooftop Films.Building a sense of community is a key, Mr. Rosenberg said, and  Rooftop takes care to match the movies with the locations.  Next month it  will show a romance program at a former oil silo on the banks of the canal  — "Venice on the Gowanus," Mr. Rosenberg said. Tomorrow night's selection, the documentary "Third Ward, TX," is about a blighted neighborhood in Houston that was rescued by local artists, who must now fend off gentrification; it will be screened at the Can Factory, in an area facing similar issues. (Rooftop, a nonprofit organization, is one of the few outdoor cinemas that charges for tickets: $8 at the door, or $5 online. But $1 from each ticket, and from filmmakers' application fees, goes to grants for local filmmakers; the company  also donates production services like editing.)Offbeat selections — arty foreign films, classics and cult favorites — are another part of the appeal. "A good outdoor movie is a challenging movie," Mr. Rosenberg said, or else your attention is likely to drift  to the scenery.The weather, of course, can be a problem. The newest addition to the walk-up movie phenomenon, at Tompkins Square Park in the East Village, was delayed by rain; at its rescheduled inaugural screening on Tuesday, a crowd of 20-somethings, students, couples and young families gathered to watch "Raiders of the Lost Ark." They ate takeout and drank beer; a good number of people smoked. (As befits the neighborhood, the series is sponsored by  the owners  of  the local bars GalleryBar and Plan B,   though they say they  don't condone the drinking.)"It's awesome," said Ryan Early, 21, who stumbled upon the screening on a walk through the neighborhood  with a friend and stopped to watch.  "We're just here for boozing and eating. It's the perfect summertime thing to do."About the only thing that outdoor cinema typically lacks is popcorn. But there is a very good reason for that."Pigeons," Mr. Rosenberg said.Google hopes technology will be in place in September to stop the posting of copyright-infringing videos on its YouTube site, a company lawyer told a judge presiding over copyright lawsuits yesterday.The lawyer, Philip S. Beck, told U.S. District Judge Louis L. Stanton in Manhattan that YouTube was working "very intensely and cooperating" with major content companies on  video recognition technology as sophisticated as the fingerprint technology used by the F.B.I.Mr. Beck said the company planned to have the technology in place in the fall, "hopefully in September."Viacom, the music publisher Bourne and the Premier League, England's top soccer league, have filed suits against YouTube that were combined for trial purposes before Judge Stanton.Mr. Beck said the video recognition technology would allow owners of videos to provide a digital fingerprint so that if anyone tried to share a video that infringed copyrights, the system would remove it within a minute or so.Mr. Beck said the company was counting on the software to "hopefully eliminate such disputes in the future." He said the company believes the new technology goes far beyond what the law requires to stop copyright infringement.Lawyers for plaintiffs in the lawsuits said they welcomed any improvement that would end infringement of their copyrights but believed YouTube should have acted sooner.Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., a lawyer for Viacom, said it would take the next year to identify the extent of infringement that continues to happen on "a very massive scale.""Perhaps the filtering mechanism will help. If so, we'll be very grateful for that," he said.Viacom sought $1 billion in damages for what it said was the unauthorized viewing of its programming from MTV, Comedy Central and other networks, such as "The Daily Show With Jon Stewart." In their lawsuit, the soccer league and music publisher sought unspecified damages and any profits YouTube had made as a result of the sharing of copyrighted videos.YouTube said in response to the lawsuits that it goes beyond what is required under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which gives Web hosts protection from copyright lawsuits as long as they comply with requests to remove unauthorized material.YouTube said it cooperates with holders of copyrights and immediately complies with requests to remove unauthorized material.10 P.M. (CMT) CMT AT SUMMERFEST 2007 In late June more than 890,000 revelers descended on Milwaukee for 11 days for this 40th annual music festival, which calls itself the world's largest, and CMT was there. This three-night series presents concerts by a trilogy of chart-topping country music artists, starting with the sweet sounds of Sugarland. A performance by Sara Evans will be broadcast at 10 p.m. tomorrow, and one by Big & Rich, above,  at 10 p.m. on  Sunday.7 P.M. (Sci Fi) SANDS OF OBLIVION (2007) An archaeological team unearths the sets from Cecil B. DeMille's 1923 epic, "The 10 Commandments"  —  and unleashes the spirit of an evil Egyptian god seeking revenge for the looting of artifacts from the tombs of pharaohs. Now they've got to get him back in the ground. Dan Castellaneta, Morena Baccarin, Adam Baldwin and Richard Kind star.8:30 P.M. (Animal Planet) MEERKAT MANOR In preparation for a third go-round of this reality series about the madcap antics of the Whiskers, a family of meerkats living in the Kalahari Desert in Africa, this special recaps the adventures from the first two seasons. The new season begins on Aug. 10.9 P.M. (Discovery) SHARKS: A FAMILY AFFAIR Craig Ferreira, a leading shark expert in South Africa, has devoted his life to studying and diving with these creatures. But his dream is to spend a year swimming with what he calls "the dirty dozen"  — 12 of the deadliest species  — and passing along his love of them to his three children. In this special Mr. Ferreira takes his family on a seven-day expedition to the famous "Shark Alley" near  Dyer Island, off his country's southern coast, where they tag sharks and observe great whites from an underwater cage.9 P.M. (USA) MONK That's one way to kill a friendship: Mr. Monk (Tony Shalhoub)  suspects that Captain Stottlemeyer's girlfriend, Linda Fusco (Sharon Lawrence), may have committed murder.10 P.M. (Showtime) DOUG STANHOPE: NO REFUNDS Not for tender ears: Mr. Stanhope vents "his toxically hilarious spleen," in the words of the Showtime people, in this stand-up special taped at the Gotham Comedy Club in Manhattan.MIDNIGHT (IFC) INDIE SEX II: TEENS IFC continues its exploration of eroticism in independent films, tackling here the taboo topic of underage sex in movies from "Splendor in the Grass" to "Kids" to "Thirteen." Rosanna Arquette, Jamie Babbit, Catherine Breillat, Colette Burson, Miranda July, Tatum O'Neal, Peter Sarsgaard, Todd Stephens and Guinevere Turner are among those who talk about the films that played an important role in their teenage sexual educations. Dita Von Teese is host. KATHRYN SHATTUCK
