BALTIMOREWHEN Ryan Shaw performed at the Artscape festival here last month,  he brought a refreshing authenticity to the soul-revival movement that has made stars out of Amy Winehouse, Joss Stone and John Legend. Mr. Shaw, 26, could shake the oldies dust off songs from the late 1950s and early '60s because he came to the music the same way the originals did: in the black church. And when he sang "Nobody," his own composition and the new single from his debut album, "This Is Ryan Shaw" (Columbia/One Haven/Red Ink), it resembled the hymns that Ray Charles and Wilson Pickett once turned into pop hits by changing a few words.Mr. Shaw, who was born in Georgia and now lives in Brooklyn, invited the sun-baked fans to imagine themselves with him in the Free Church of God in Christ of Atlanta, where he learned to sing. Sporting a black shirt with red piping and a bundle of thin braids with burnt orange tips, he sang the familiar words to "If I Had a Hammer," delivered in the soul style of Sam Cooke. And when he led the crowd in a call-and-response sing-along, he swooped his outstretched arms as if he were still a choir director.But he's not a choir director anymore, and he would have trouble returning to the post given the mixed reactions to his pop music career. While some of his fellow churchgoers have been supportive, others have told him that he's going to hell for singing secular music. Mr. Shaw acknowledged that he couldn't sing the way he does if not for all those years in church, but he added that such criticism can make it difficult to grow as an artist."It's that Catch-22," he explained backstage at Artscape. "The traditions of the church allow it to preserve musical styles that might otherwise be lost, but it can also make for stagnation. Things are always changing in youth culture, especially in black music, and young people want to hear those changes in church."If the church gives in too easily to those changes, gospel music will lose its identity," he said, "but if it resists those changes too much, it will alienate the youth. That's why you have all these battles about what is gospel music and what God wants to hear."It's a familiar story: A musician tries to take the music he learned in church out into the pop marketplace, and the church reacts by shutting its doors on the apostate. From Georgia Tom Dorsey, the minister's son who played the blues for Ma Rainey in the 1920s; to Al Green, who gave up pop stardom to become a minister himself in the 1970s; to Robert Randolph, who was barred from playing in church after becoming a jam-band star in this decade, hundreds of artists have taken their turns as protagonists in this tale.It  is usually told in terms of a forward-thinking youngster and a hidebound institution, but it's more complicated than that. If Mr. Shaw's church, for example, hadn't been so stubbornly old-fashioned, he never would have mastered the art of melodic shouting and never would have sounded so natural when he turned to retro-soul. Maybe these churches provide a valuable service by being narrow-minded about music."There are so few areas in popular culture that remain untouched by the mainstream," said Peter Guralnick, author of "Sweet Soul Music" and "Dream Boogie: The Triumph of Sam Cooke," "that any area that remains separate and retains its attachment to a tradition is going to sound pure and distinctive."Some churches are more untouched than others, but all of them tend to preserve older styles of American music, whether you're talking about soul music or bluegrass. That's especially true in this era of hip-hop and rap, which are really the first popular forms of black music in my lifetime that haven't sprung directly from the church."It's funny, Mr. Shaw said, what churches will and won't accept. "When R&B started using jazzy chords like 7ths, 9ths and 13ths, you couldn't use them in church because that was 'the devil's music,' " he said. "But as soon as R&B moved on to something else, suddenly it was O.K. to use those chords because the devil wasn't using them anymore."Just like in the clothes world, where some stores will sell last year's fashions, the church often ends up using the last decade's R&B fashions."Thus  stars like Kirk Franklin and Da' T.R.U.T.H. might bring  funk and old-school rap to the gospel charts, but there's still a time lag between the sounds on urban radio and those on gospel radio. And in more conservative churches you'll find the styles of '60s soul, '50s doo-wop or '40s quartets perfectly preserved. If you want to learn the craft of those genres, the church is the place to study."My church was very traditional," Mr. Shaw said, "and for a long time the only songs I learned were gospel songs. It was a very aggressive kind of singing. We didn't warm into a song. We were in it full throttle from the get-go. When I moved to New York and got a job at the Motown Cafe, those Motown songs felt like the music I'd been singing all my life, even if the lyrics and melodies were different."Sometimes a black church incubates a style that doesn't exist anywhere else. That's the case with the House of God, which adopted the steel guitar, an instrument associated with Hawaiian and country music, and adapted it to its liturgy.If you had attended the House of God's national assembly in Nashville in 2000, you might have seen a 22-year-old nobody in a brown pinstripe suit sitting behind a pedal steel guitar. As the preachers thundered and the congregants shouted back, he laced it all together with vocal-like swoops across the 13 strings of his tablelike instrument and wild, psychedelic digressions in the distinctive style known as sacred steel.That nobody was Robert Randolph, and within a year, thanks in part to John Medeski and the North Mississippi Allstars, who recorded with him as the Word, he was headlining at rock clubs. When he came with his Family Band to the Sonar Lounge in Baltimore in December, his signature song, "I Need More Love," didn't sound all that different from the processional and offertory hymns he used to play in the House of God. Mr. Randolph, who still lives in his native New Jersey, was wearing a sports jersey rather than a suit, and the lyrics spoke of love in terms of universal brotherhood rather than obeisance to a deity, but the impact was much the same.Sitting in his tour bus before the Sonar Lounge show Mr. Randolph kept glancing at the football game on the television because he had told the story of learning to play black gospel music on an unlikely instrument dozens of times before. But when asked about playing in the church today, his expression darkened and he gazed directly at a reporter."We were kicked out of playing in church in 2001," he said. "They said we were playing the blues and our songs didn't talk about God. But my goal was to take the sound I learned in church and show that that sound can find a place in the secular world. I wanted to prove that a young kid doesn't have to talk about drugs, guns and booty. He can be successful singing about love and happiness.""When blessings keep coming down on this band," he continued, "when we get calls from Eric Clapton and Dave Matthews, when people who have listened to thousands of records hear something special in what we're doing, I know this is what God has carved out for me. It's not up to anyone else to tell me what his plan is."Maurice (Ted) Beard is one of the sacred steel guitarists that Mr. Randolph learned from during his church's national assemblies. Today Mr. Beard, a 72-year-old Detroit pastor, is minister of music for the Keith Dominion of the House of God, and he describes Mr. Randolph as a "very gifted musician." He said that he regrets that the younger guitarist can no longer play in church, but that he understands the decision, which came down from the chief overseer of the church."We really feel our musical style is something God gave us to use to enhance our worship," Mr. Beard said, "so we should really keep it in the church. If you play out in the so-called world, you're barred. There are different thoughts on the policy, but that's what it is. It's because we developed our music in the church and kept it in the church that it sounds so different from everything else."I've had offers to play out in the world, but I made a promise to my grandmother to stay in the church, so I did."Mr. Clapton and Mr. Matthews are both guests on "Colorblind" (Warner Brothers), the new album from Mr. Randolph, who will play at the Stone Pony in Asbury Park, N.J., next Saturday. Mr. Shaw frequently performs at all-ages festivals like Bumbershoot in Seattle; he'll play there on Sept. 2, and he'll play at Radio City Music Hall on Sept. 18 as part of the multi-artist Dream Concert.Both Mr. Shaw and Mr. Randolph say they don't care what their fellow churchgoers think of their secular careers, but neither is very convincing. They are obviously pained by the criticism and argue that far from abandoning their religion, they're furthering it.Mr. Shaw insisted: "As long as I'm singing about love and not being derogatory to anyone, I feel my music is still a part of Christianity, even if the songs don't mention God. It's the spirit behind the music and how it's delivered that's important."Mr. Randolph would agree. "Church is about spreading the word, and that's what we're trying to do," he said. "Even though some of our songs have more of a secular sound, it's all about life, love and understanding. Sometimes we're in church preaching the word and we think it only applies to us in the church, but there's a whole world out there."Beyoncé walked onstage at Madison Square Garden on Saturday night, made a quick commanding gesture, and sparks rained down. Her band kicked into the funk beat of "Crazy in Love," and she started to sing and dance, alternating stop-motion angular poses and serpentine shimmies, switching between robot and seductress. Her face was angry and exultant; she belted the song with bright swoops and vehement rasps. Like many of Beyoncé's songs, "Crazy in Love" treats romance as a power struggle, and it's hard to imagine her not winning in the end.She's the woman with everything: the voice, the moves, the songs, the ideas and the clothes. Her two-hour set was a brilliant pop extravaganza that kept the songs at its center.Beyoncé needs no distractions from her singing, which can be airy or brassy, tearful or vicious, rapid-fire with staccato syllables or sustained in curlicued melismas. But she was in constant motion, strutting in costumes (most of them silvery), from miniskirts to formal dresses, flesh-toned bodysuit to bikini to negligee.The wardrobe entices men, but it's also a means of self-assertion. "Stop, I ain't ready yet  — wait, let me fix my hair," she chanted to the beat in the introduction to "Freakum Dress," a hard-rock song about every woman's most seductive outfit. Desire is her ally, yet also, in some songs, her undoing; men inexplicably will mess up a good thing. And while Beyoncé can coo when she wants to, what makes her songs memorable is a streak of rage that's perfectly groomed but unmistakable. Her second solo album, "B'Day" (Columbia), grows downright furious in songs like "Ring the Alarm" and "Green Light."As the leader of Destiny's Child and now on her own, Beyoncé presents herself as a hard-working, self-guided, amorous woman amid men who can be undependable but irresistible. Destiny's Child sometimes aimed for songs of female solidarity like "Independent Woman" and "Survivor" — part of a Destiny's Child medley during the set — while Beyoncé on her own usually keeps things one to one, addressing her man with passion or anger. Onstage she had an all-woman band, and the show used men only as dancers: decorative beefcake for her primarily female audience.The set was full of minithemes: bee references (as in B for Beyoncé), homages to predecessors like James Brown and Donna Summer, reminders about Beyoncé's celebrity and her fashion tie-ins. It revolved around her star presence. When she wasn't thanking her fans, she was demanding louder sing-alongs. Along the way the concert was a showcase for her consistently expanding music, from the kinetic dance beats of songs like "Get Me Bodied" to dramatic ballads like "Flaws and All," which Beyoncé sang wide-eyed in a video close-up.As the concert ended, Beyoncé had the audience sing while she became a gracious celebrity, strolling the stage and pointing to individual fans. "I see you!" she said, describing their clothes or the signs they held; the performer became the spectator. Then she picked up the song herself. It was "Irreplaceable," a gentle guitar ballad with an edge; it tells a man in no uncertain terms to move out because he's being replaced. Capping her moment of communion with the fans, she reminded them that desire can be fleeting."I got to tell you one more," B. B. King said from the stage on Tuesday night, "and then I'm going to work." And he spun another story about how he secretly loves the way beautiful young women pat old men on the head, and  how he never saw an electric light bulb until he was 16,  or how bringing a pile of paper money back home to your sweetheart isn't as effective as it used to be.He pantomimed. He rucked up his shoulders so they nearly touched his ears, like a kid confronted with a perfect birthday present; he covered his face with one hand, opening a peek hole between two fingers; crossed his arms over his chest in ecstasy; made bug eyes in mock surprise; squinted at his sidemen in mock suspicion.Mr. King was headlining his own tour, the B. B. King Blues Festival, which made a local stop at the WaMu Theater at Madison Square Garden (formerly known as the Theater at Madison Square Garden). So it's his party, but he makes a lot more of these in-between monologues than the average concertgoer might want. Maybe it's just that he knows his physical limits. (It's no joke to be 81, with diabetes and one-nighters scheduled into the foreseeable future.)Anyway, he copped to it. "The papers will kill me tomorrow," he said. "They'll say 'Old B. B. was pretty good, but he talked all night.' "When he wasn't talking, he played tunes that have been lodged in his sets for quite a while: "Key to the Highway," "Ain't That Just Like a Woman," "You Are My Sunshine," "Nobody Loves Me but My Mother." They were worn but deep, as was the humor. (He told a story about a plow mule. How many mule stories have you heard a famous performer tell lately?) And a lot of jokes and stories can render  his guitar playing  more precious in small doses. As soon as he  took his seat in front of his eight-piece band, he made his instrument roar.The first meaty thunderclap from Lucille, his matte-black guitar, is always rougher than you expect from a man who prides himself on family-friendly entertainment. (Blue jokes were coded: Sex was "supper.") Then, not to be too easily defined, he scaled his sound down quickly into delicate lines, each note beautifully formed. Between ideas were vocal-sounding guitar interjections: a wolf whistle, a throat clearing, a shout. Or sometimes he let go of his instrument altogether. Mr. King is still a powerful singer, with a voice much like his guitar: rough and toothy, then suddenly soft.Etta James was to be on the tour but canceled two weeks ago; she is recovering from complications after abdominal surgery. This left more time to the third performer on the bill, Al Green: about an hour and a quarter of magnificence.In a tuxedo with cummerbund,  gold star of David hanging from his necklace, and chewing gum, the Rev. Al Green spent the first 10 minutes laughing, singing a few newer songs, and delivering red roses to the audience. Then, with two synchronized male dancers working around him, he began a row of hits from the early 1970s: "Let's Get Married," "Let's Stay Together," "How Can You Mend a Broken Heart," "Tired of Being Alone."His remarkable delivery and stagecraft seemed to work against the idea of a focused  performance.  Singing, he floated forward on non sequiturs and half-phrases. Sometimes he stepped three feet away from the microphone and stand, moving a little to the left or right, aiming his strong voice at a wider target around it, letting his cackles and falsetto cries work like darts or subside into the music.Somewhere in the middle, after making a flirtatious show of turning his back and zipping up his trousers, he put on an in-all-seriousness face. "This is the Theater at Madison," he said. "We don't want to show out, now. But we come from the Apollo, Apollo days, you know. Listen, let's go back to the very beginning. A-ah-ha-may..."  While the band and the backup singers played "Amazing Grace,"  he had a conversation with the song:...zing...grace how swee... Me too, I was there too.Come on.What happened?And what?Was blind, totally blind...Listen:I see.Ah yes, that's alright. Girls?His two backup singers — one was his daughter, Deborah Green — carried on the work for him. When he re-entered, he was screaming, thundering, a full reversal from the shaded, talky singing he's known for. It was almost frightening. At the end he let his right arm fall slack, and the band shut down completely.LONDONEDWARD ELGAR'S eminence in British music, 150 years after his birth, is assured.During this anniversary year his music is being played up and down the land, from January to December: rare as well as familiar works, as a glance at the Elgar Society Web site (www.elgar.org) shows. There are many broadcasts, celebrations, major publications. But exactly what Elgar stood for and what is unique about his music are more than ever being questioned.Recently in Britain there have been several scholarly Elgar conferences, with Americans as well as his countrymen taking part. Old assumptions are being challenged, clichés rejected. And in a welcome development, the major festival is in America, which Elgar visited several times to conduct his music. Over the next two weekends the Bard Music Festival in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., will devote its annual Rediscoveries series to Elgar and his world.Critical opinion about Elgar is far less settled than it was at his centenary in 1957. Fifty years ago he seemed a grand phenomenon. At a greater distance he is more of a historical figure, less of a living presence.To the many Americans now writing about him, he may seem no more familiar than Brahms. Young British academics are applying rigorous analytical techniques to his music as if he were Debussy or Schoenberg, unencumbered by images of the Malvern Hills or the British empire. His sayings are being taken less at face value and scrutinized as defensive coverups. Scholars who have studied other composers before Elgar — Julian Rushton, after Mozart and Berlioz; James Hepokoski, after Verdi and Sibelius — come to him freshly.It was never true that Elgar was universally regarded simply as a Colonel Blimp, epitomizing England, Empire and Establishment, his music confident and grandiloquent. Certainly, "Land of Hope and Glory" (better known to Americans from the "Pomp and Circumstance" March of countless graduations), the once-in-a-lifetime tune that entered the national consciousness and brought him popular fame, also acted partly as a barrier.Some people, though always a minority, saw little beyond it, beyond the bristling mustache and the cultivated military appearance. Perceptive listeners, right from the start, heard the nervousness beneath the swagger. The pendulum may indeed have swung too far the other way. Emphasizing the melancholy, tormented undertow to Elgar's music has brought a danger that his life-affirming, exuberant, glowing side is now underestimated. He may have wished to "curse the power that gave me gifts," as he once said, but he also knew the "Spirit of Delight" invoked in the epigraph to his Second Symphony.His range is great. At one extreme are his charming light pieces, like "Salut d'Amour." They are not negligible, for their melodic appeal and the finish of their workmanship are enduring.During the decade in which Delius composed his agnostic "Mass of Life" to Nietzsche's text, Elgar turned to Cardinal Newman for his searing oratorio "The Dream of Gerontius" and offered glimpses of eternity. (The critic Michael Steinberg rates "Gerontius" as the greatest religious work between Verdi's Requiem and Stravinsky's "Symphony of Psalms.")The exhilarating but elusive Introduction and Allegro for strings is a bridge between the 18th-century concerto grosso and Vaughan Williams's "Tallis Fantasia" and Tippett's Double Concerto. Then there are the enchanting Edwardian-style stage works, "The Starlight Express" and "The Sanguine Fan"; great part songs, still underperformed; and strange miniatures like the song "Submarines."Elgar's two symphonies are psychologically complex, and they explore the harmonic hinterland behind their ostensible keys. Elgar can use limpid scales to express innocence, but at anguished climaxes — in the opening movement of the First Symphony or the Rondo of the Second — the distortion approaches Expressionism.Commentators argue whether this "typical" Englishman was overemotional or repressed. But it is exactly this tension between passion and inhibition that makes him so compelling.Elgar was uneasily poised between cultures. Born and rooted in Worcestershire, in verdant central England, he has been seen as primarily a pastoral composer. The American-born Elgar scholar Jerrold Northrop Moore most persuasively argues for this. But as soon as Elgar could afford it, he made a bid for London, and he was at his most carefree vacationing in Bavaria and Italy. He was a Roman Catholic who never composed a mature Mass, and he spent much of his life among the three great Protestant cathedrals of the Three Choirs Festival, accepting an invitation for an Anglican Te Deum and Benedictus. He was born into trade, married into a county family, then leapfrogged over that rank to mingle with the aristocracy.A tougher man might have drawn strength from such diversity. Elgar was by no means the only creative artist of his time to rise socially. James Barrie and Thomas Hardy, like Elgar, all started life with few material advantages. All three rose to fame in the first half of the last century; all three were loaded with honors; all three were awarded the Order of Merit. Class-conscious though England may have been, people with outstanding ability and perseverance could rise to the top.But for the thin-skinned Elgar, such balancing acts meant insecurity, and he made it worse by his determination to live, once established, only by his composing. Unlike his English contemporaries, he proudly refused to seek a salaried professional post. He never achieved a stable personality but was subject to violent despondencies, and he made some shockingly bitter remarks that need to be set in a sympathetic context. In later life he could adopt irritating poses, like rating horse racing above composition.For all that, he had devoted, tenacious friends. He was also one of the great letter writers of all time, pouring out ridiculous puns next to heart-rending confessions and thoroughly practical instructions for the printing of his music.He saw himself as disadvantaged by having been self-taught. Yet without undue early influence he developed his noble tunes, aspirational sequences and vigorous rhythms into an instantly recognizable style. He worked in the provinces as organist, accompanist, arranger, violinist (solo and orchestral), conductor, bassoonist and teacher, to say nothing of composer. He could hardly have acquired a finer practical training anywhere.His contrapuntal technique is essential to the integration of his symphonic movements and is the very web and woof of his "Falstaff." Yet he wore his hard-won learning lightly. His "Enigma" Variations, which catapulted him to fame in 1899, sound absolutely spontaneous but can bear strict analysis. The eighth variation (''W. N."), a portrait of a delicate country household, is a tissue of extensions, chromatic inflections and rhythmic and melodic reversals, all ingeniously derived from the theme. Into the bluff, emphatic fourth variation ("W. M. B."), he nonchalantly tossed a couple of bars of close canon.His Violin Concerto, given its premiere in London in 1910 by Fritz Kreisler with Elgar conducting, marked the peak of his career. His Second Symphony, of 1911, brought a more puzzled response. Change was in the air. Edward VII was dead; Stravinsky was composing "The Rite of Spring"; the Great War was coming nearer.That war destroyed Elgar's world. As it ended, he withdrew inward, composing chamber music and his poignant, haunted Cello Concerto. Was that a requiem for the war dead, for the cultural world he knew, for his own increasing age, even for a lost early love? It could be none or all of these.Elgar was never parochial. His technique owes much to Wagner, his orchestration to French composers. It was Hans Richter, who had given premieres of works by Brahms, Wagner and Dvorak, who introduced the "Enigma" Variations to London. The first truly successful performance of "Gerontius" was in Düsseldorf under Julius Buths. In Elgar's heyday he was taken up by Artur Nikisch, Fritz Steinbach, Bruno Walter and Felix Weingartner; and by Theodore Thomas in Chicago and Frank and Walter Damrosch in New York. Mahler conducted the "Enigma" Variations in New York in 1911.Unlike the generation of British composers that followed him, Elgar did not find inspiration in folk song. The only charge England might lay against him is that his genius overpowered his lesser but still fine near-contemporaries, until the advent of Vaughan Williams and Britten. The great merit of the Bard festival which begins on Friday, is to place Elgar in that wider context.In 1899 Horatio Parker's oratorio "Hora Novissima" was given in Elgar's hometown, Worcester, the first American work to be performed at a Three Choirs Festival. In 1905 Professor Parker, initiating a tradition, performed the "Pomp and Circumstance" March No. 1 at Yale when an honorary doctorate was conferred on Elgar.Elgar was introduced as a composer "honored for his genius" in an art that "voices the profoundest spirited emotions and the deepest longings of the heart.""Commanding the homage of the musicians of Germany, of France and of America," the commendation went on, "he is heartily welcomed among us."What do rappers lose when they get older? In the case of Bun B and Pimp C, two rappers in their 30s from Port Arthur, Tex., who perform together as UGK, the answer is, not much.Lots has happened to them since they first got together, in the late 1980s. They helped put nearby Houston on the hip-hop map, and they helped inspire a generation of Southern hip-hop stars, from OutKast to Lil Wayne. They had a fluke hit when Jay-Z invited them to add verses to his song "Big Pimpin'," in 1999. Then they had an even flukier miss, a couple of years later, when record-company disputes sabotaged "Dirty Money," the 2001 album that should have been their breakthrough. Soon after the album's release, Pimp C went to prison, where he served almost four years on charges stemming from an aggravated-assault conviction. Bun B lobbied tirelessly for his imprisoned partner, shouting, "Free Pimp C!" whenever he got near a microphone, which was often.Through it all, they have put together a solid — sometimes brilliant — series of albums, guest appearances and mixtape tracks. Almost from the start, UGK was known for tough but smooth rhymes delivered over elegant, leisurely beats. Their lyrics chronicle a Texan underworld full of pimps who talk slick, pushers who talk tough, snitches who talk too much. They are, among other things, astute chroniclers of Southern poverty, but they're not particularly interested in being good guys.They prove that once more on their long-awaited new double album, "Underground Kingz" (Jive), which arrives in stores today. In a silky song called  "Gravy," Bun B waxes physiological: "When I put one up in your dome/You'll be leakin' out plasma and pus, and your mouth'll fill up with foam."Somehow, these two have grown older and wiser without outgrowing their genre; you never get the feeling that they think they're too good for this kind of thing. Other veterans succeed by rising above the fray, but these two succeed by remaining part of it.In 1992, when UGK made a major-label debut with "Too Hard to Swallow," a long career hardly seemed guaranteed. On the contrary, some listeners probably thought these two were just a couple of Texas knuckleheads cashing in on the so-called gangsta-rap fad. And yet gangsta rap, broadly speaking — streetwise protagonists, explicit lyrics, hard-boiled stories — turned out to be hip-hop's future, to the consternation of gripers past and present. Southern gangsta rap, in particular. It's now clear that Bun B and Pimp C were ahead of their time.Not that it would have mattered if they hadn't been so obsessed with craft. Pimp C is the group's main producer, and he has created a brilliantly effective template: hard, loping drums; slow-motion bass lines; suave nods to 1970s soul.He's also a flamboyant rapper, equipped with a pinched, braying voice and a tendency to lean hard into vowels, bending them to his will. (He also has a reputation for obstreperousness; he recently had to apologize to the entire city of Atlanta for claiming that it wasn't really part of the South.)Meanwhile, Bun B is the diplomatic wordsmith, respected and even beloved by his peers. He is equally capable of an unexpected insight or a brute-force barrage of steady syllables, with shifting stress patterns and varied line lengths to keep listeners off balance.True to UGK form, the new CDs didn't have a smooth voyage from recording studio to record store. The first single, "The Game Belongs to Me," never caught on at radio, which helps explain why the album's release date kept being  moved back.The second single is a glorious confection called "Int'l Players Anthem," with a couple of spectacular guest verses from the members of OutKast and a lush beat (sampling Willie Hutch) by Three 6 Mafia. It's just about perfect, and unexpectedly romantic, but it's probably too unhurried — too stubborn, you might say — to be a pop hit.In fact, stubbornness is one of this duo's greatest virtues. You can hear it all over "Underground Kingz," a double-album that's solid to a fault. There are guests ranging from the dirty-rap pioneer Too $hort to the British motormouth Dizzee Rascal; from Z-Ro, the moody Houstonite, to Talib Kweli, the levelheaded Brooklynite. But most of the tracks were produced by or with Pimp C, who hews closely to the formula he invented. Fans have been waiting five years for a new UGK album, and apparently now it's time to overdose.There is plenty of old-fashioned trash talking here. More than once, Bun B reminds listen ers that he and his partner have brash new nicknames: Big Dick Cheney and Tony Snow. Throughout these two CDs, kilos are sold, foes are threatened, cars are painted and repainted, prostitutes are put in their place.But you can also hear a bracing kind of clarity, and maybe it's the kind that comes with age. In "Still Ridin' Dirty," Bun B provides some grim context for the unapologetic rhymes elsewhere on the album:"You live by the gun, you'll die by the slugs, man/You live off of fiends, you'll die behind drugs, man." This is an acknowledgment, but it's not a disavowal. And in "How Long Can It Last," he scoffs at the idea that drug dealers are having fun: "They wish they lived in the 'burbs, wish they didn't have to hang/out on corners in low-income housing projects and slang."Bun B and Pimp C are keenly attuned to the way these antiheroes make a virtue of necessity, the way a struggle to survive comes to seem like a swashbuckling adventure. Indeed, they are never more vehement than when they're expounding on the aesthetics and ethics of street life. At one point, Bun B lists the group's core values: honor, respect, valor and guts. (Actually, "guts" isn't the word he uses, but it's close enough.)And in "Take tha Hood Back," Bun B fulminates against would-be kingpins who are "really hustlin' wrong" by associating with snitches, and he sounds like the exasperated elder he is when he huffs, "I'm teachin' classes: Dope Slangin' 101." Kids today: they just don't sell crack the way  they used to.Like all veterans, these two look back fondly on the world that made them. It's nostalgia, but if anything, it's nostalgia for a crueler world, not a gentler one. All these years later, their seeming nihilism seems more like integrity: a clear-eyed commitment to an old-fashioned ideal, despite its contradictions.Surely this is part of the reason   they have lasted so long, and aged so well. In their rhymes you can hear the irrational, irresistible process by which bad old days are transformed into good ones.CLASSICALFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.'ELGAR AND HIS WORLD' Edward Elgar's music (like that of many composers) has fallen in and out of fashion over the years. One hundred and fifty years after his birth, Elgar, above, the English composer primarily known for works like his "Pomp and Circumstance" marches, "Enigma" Variations and haunting Cello Concerto, is being thoroughly revisited. One of the most in-depth explorations on either side of the Atlantic begins Friday at the Bard Music Festival, where three weekends will be devoted to "Elgar and His World." There is nowhere better than the Bard Festival, which makes a practice of offering intense lineups of performances, pre-concert talks, panels and lectures, to re-examine misunderstood composers. Leon Botstein, the American Symphony Orchestra and a host of other musicians and scholars will play and discuss music by Elgar and a wide array of his predecessors and contemporaries, performing his well-known works as well as less frequently heard ones like the Symphony No. 2. The festival opens Friday with a program called "Elgar: From Autodidact to 'Master of the King's Musick.' " Saturday, performers including the Daedalus Quartet, the baritone Thomas Meglioranza and the pianist Simone Dinnerstein participate in "Music in the Era of Queen Victoria," playing works by Johann Baptist Cramer, William Sterndale Bennett and Elgar. Later that day Mr. Botstein will lead the American Symphony in Elgar's "Enigma" Variations and his Funeral March from "Grania and Diarmid," and Hubert Parry's Symphonic Variations. The opening weekend wraps up on Sunday afternoon with works for brass and strings by Elgar, Richard Strauss, Vaughan Williams and John Ireland. (Opens Friday at 8 at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., 845-758-7900, fishercenter.bard.edu; $20 to $55.) VIVIEN SCHWEITZEROperaAFTERNOON ARIAS (Tuesday and Thursday) The New York City Opera seems increasingly to be sending its young singers out into the city; this week they test their volume against that of the urban jungle, giving the first two of three lunchtime concerts in the verdant but noisy spaces of Bryant Park. Included are highlights from coming seasons, like "Vanessa" (from the fall) and "Candide" (from the spring), and some fine voices: Inna Dukach, Jennifer Tiller, Robert Mack and Marco Nisticò. At 12:30 p.m., Avenue of the Americas at 40th Street, (212) 870-7787, nycopera.com; free. (Anne Midgette)BARD SUMMERSCAPE (Friday through Sunday) The continuing exploration of Elgar and his world continues up at Bard with Gilbert and Sullivan's "Sorcerer," whose protagonist advocates marrying for love, not social standing. Erica Schmidt directs this new production of this famous duo's first full-length collaboration, which features set designs by David Korins, costumes by Mattie Ullrich, lighting by David Weiner and choreography by Sean Curran. James Bagwell conducts. Friday at 5 p.m., Saturday and Sunday at 3 p.m., Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7900, bard.edu/summerscape; $45; $40.50 for 65+;  $36 for students. (Vivien Schweitzer)? GLIMMERGLASS OPERA (Friday through Thursday) To celebrate the 400th anniversary of Monteverdi's "Orfeo," Glimmerglass is presenting a new production of it, along with new productions of three later works also based on the Orpheus myth. There are intriguing elements to Christopher Alden's high-concept and gritty "Orfeo," and the courageous young tenor Michael Slattery, who plays the title character as a sullen Kurt Cobain type, gives his all.  The surprise hit of the season is the sleek and surreal staging of Philip Glass's mesmerizing "Orphée," which borrows the concept and the screenplay (almost intact) from Jean Cocteau's 1949 film of the same title. The charismatic baritone Philip Cutlip makes a tormented Orphée. Offenbach's operetta "Orpheus in the Underworld"  is over the top at times, but anything goes in this madcap comedy, and the cast is mostly winning. Gluck's sublime masterpiece "Orfeo ed Euridice" is presented in Berlioz's seldom-heard French edition — a somewhat fussy though imaginative production. Offenbach: Friday at 8 and Monday at 2 p.m. Gluck: Saturday at 1:30 p.m.  Monteverdi: Saturday at 8 p.m. and Tuesday at 2 p.m. Glass: Sunday at 2 p.m. and Thursday at 8 p.m. Alice Busch Opera Theater,  Route 80, north of Cooperstown, N.Y., (607) 547-2255, glimmerglass.org; $41 to $117.(Anthony Tommasini) 'SUOR ANGELICA'/'GIANNI SCHICCHI' (Thursday) Now that the sumptuous Met production this past season helped reacquaint New York audiences with Puccini's "Trittico," Empire Opera, one of the city's ubiquitous shoestring companies, is staging two-thirds of the piece in a more intimate setting, with young singers and piano accompaniment. At 7:30 p.m., Christ and St. Stephen's Church, 120 West 69th Street, Manhattan, (917) 971-0974; freewebs.com/empireopera; $20 to $30 in advance, $25 to $35 at the door; for students and 65+, $15 in advance or $20 at the door. (Midgette)Classical MusicBARGEMUSIC (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday) This floating concert hall on the Brooklyn side of the East River is open all year, but it is at its best in the spring and summer, when the sun sets late, and it's warm enough to have an intermission stroll on the deck. This week the piano, on its own and in ensembles, is in the spotlight. Friday Dina Yoffe plays Beethoven's "Eroica" Variations and works by Chopin and Schumann. Olga Vinokur takes over Saturday for a brunch recital of works by Chopin, Liszt and Rachmaninoff. Saturday and Sunday the ensemble NYCQ plays string quartets by Schubert and Brahms, and Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 12 in A. And on Wednesday Nami Ejiri performs the four Chopin Scherzos and Mussorgsky's "Pictures at an Exhibition." Friday and Wednesday night at 8, Saturday at 1 and 8 p.m., and Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org. $35 to $40, with discounts available for students and 65+.  (Allan Kozinn)MARLBORO MUSIC FESTIVAL (Friday through Sunday) The chamber music delights of Marlboro, where hierarchies are ignored, and rising stars and musical legends play side by side, conclude on Sunday with Beethoven's "Choral Fantasy." Ignat Solzhenitsyn conducts; the pianist Richard Goode (also one of Marlboro's artistic directors) is the soloist. Other highlights include the seldom-performed Quartet for Horn and String Trio by Johannes Andreas Amon (a contemporary of Beethoven's) Friday, along with Schoenberg's String Quartet No. 1. Saturday's lineup includes Mozart's "Gran Partita" and Beethoven's String Quartet in E minor ("Razumovsky"). Friday and Saturday night at 8:30, Sunday at 2:30 p.m., Marlboro College, Marlboro, Vt., (802) 254-2394, marlboromusic.org; $15 to $35; outdoor seats, $5. (Schweitzer)MAVERICK CONCERTS (Saturday and Sunday) This concert series near Woodstock, N.Y., offers its performances in an open-backed barn that allows the sounds of nature to mingle with the music.  Livia Sohn, a violinist, and Natalie Zhu, a pianist, play a family concert Saturday morning, and a full recital  —  with sonatas by Mozart, Grieg and Russell Platt  —  in the afternoon. The Shanghai Quartet plays Schubert's "Death and the Maiden" Quartet, Beethoven's Quartet in B flat (Op. 18, No. 6) and Zhou Long's "Song of the Ch'in" on Sunday. Saturday at 11 a.m. and 6 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Maverick Concert Hall, Maverick Road, between Routes 28 and 375, West Hurley, N.Y., (845) 679-8217, maverickconcerts.org. The Young People's Concert is $5 for adults and free for children and students; Saturday evening and Sunday are $20;  $5 for students. (Kozinn)MOSTLY MOZART FESTIVAL (Friday through Sunday) Though this Lincoln Center festival doesn't always focus on its eponymous composer, Mozart gets due honor this weekend. Friday and Saturday the outstanding violinist Christian Tetzlaff offers the Fifth Violin Concerto on a program that includes incidental music to "Thamos, King of Egypt," written for a play performed by Emanuel Schikaneder's troupe years before "The Magic Flute," as well as the Schubert Fourth; the conductor Ludovic Morlot makes his Mostly Mozart debut. Mr. Tetzlaff will also offer a solo recital after Friday's concert in the more informal setting of the Kaplan Penthouse, juxtaposing Mozart with Kurtag and Ravel. Saturday at Kaplan is the Italian-based and wind-focused period ensemble Zefiro, which returns on Sunday morning with arrangements from  "Le Nozze di Figaro" and "Don Giovanni." Friday and Saturday night at 8, Avery Fisher Hall ($35 to $55); Friday and Saturday night at 10:30, Kaplan Penthouse, 165 West 65th Street ($38); Sunday at 11 a.m., Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street ($25); (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org. (Midgette)MUSIC MOUNTAIN (Saturday and Sunday) The summer chamber music festivities continue on Sunday with the Bergonzi String Quartet performing Glière's Quartet No. 2. The flutist Eugenia Zukerman and the guitarist David Starobin join for Schubert's Quartet for Flute, Guitar, Viola and Cello (his arrangement of a  trio by Wenzel Matiegka). Mr. Starobin and Ms. Zukerman will also perform Villa-Lobos's "Distribuição de Flores" and Ibert's "Entr'acte." The festival also features Saturday jazz concerts; this week offers the New Galvanized Jazz Band in traditional New Orleans blues, stomps and spirituals. Saturday at 6:30 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., Falls Village, Conn., (860) 824-7126, musicmountain.org; $22 in advance; $25 at the door; $12 for students. (Schweitzer)? NORFOLK CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL  (Friday and Saturday night) The violinist Ani Kavafian, the pianist André-Michel Schub and the clarinetist David Shifrin have been friends and colleagues for 25 years. Now these eminent artists have formed an ensemble, named, sensibly if not imaginatively, the Kavafian-Schub-Shifrin Trio. They say they are having lots of fun playing together. Audiences who come to this series, run by the Yale School of Music in a bucolic region of northwest Connecticut, can hear the trio in action Friday playing works by Mozart, Poulenc and Fauré, as well as the most exciting piece ever for this combination of instruments, Bartok's "Contrasts." Saturday night the Tokyo Quartet, celebrating 30 years at Norfolk, plays the United States premiere of Toshio Hosokawa's "Blossoming," along with Beethoven's "Harp" Quartet and Brahms's String Quintet in F, for which the musicians will be joined by the quartet's founding first violinist, Koichiro Harada. At 8, Ellen Battell Stoeckel Estate, Routes 44 and 272, Norfolk, Conn., (860) 542-3000, yale.edu/norfolk; $10 to $45.(Tommasini)? TANGLEWOOD (Friday through Thursday) James Levine has his hands full this week. Friday he leads the Boston Symphony Orchestra in a hefty program that includes Ives's "Three Places in New England," Elliott Carter's  "Three Illusions," Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra, and the Ravel Piano Concerto with the eloquent French pianist Pierre-Laurent Aimard. Saturday through Tuesday, he presides over Mozart's "Così Fan Tutte," with the students of the Tanglewood Music Center, in a production directed by Ira Siff. (Kazem Abdullah conducts on Monday.) While Mr. Levine is thus occupied, Rafael Frühbeck de Burgos takes over the Boston Symphony podium Saturday to conduct Schumann's "Rhenish" Symphony, Stravinsky's "Firebird" Suite and the Bruch Violin Concerto No. 1, with Itzhak Perlman; and, on Sunday, Mozart's "Marriage of Figaro" Overture and Piano Concerto No. 9, with Emanuel Ax, as well as Haydn's "Mass in Time of War." The vocal soloists in the Haydn are Paula Murrihy, Sally Matthews, Eric Cutler and Dietrich Henschel. And for something completely different, the baritone José van Dam sings music by Fauré, Duparc, Debussy and Poulenc on Thursday. Boston Symphony, Friday and Saturday night at 8:30 and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. ($9 to $99); Mr. van Dam, Thursday at 8:30 p.m. ($16 to $50); "Così Fan Tutte," Saturday at 2 p.m., Sunday through Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. ($55 to $95); Lenox, Mass., (888) 266-1200, tanglewood.org. (Kozinn)PLIES"The Real Testament" (Slip-N-Slide/Atlantic)Listeners who only know the rapper Plies from his current hit, "Shawty," might be shocked — happily shocked, one hopes — by his debut album. Like so many songs on the radio "Shawty" is built around a toothsome refrain by the R&B cyborg known as T-Pain. But between those choruses lurks a marvelously uncouth rapper. At a time when hip-hop is dominated by cheerful dance tracks and gooey love songs, Plies is a welcome anomaly: a foulmouthed, streetwise storyteller who seems eager to spoil hip-hop's good mood. (And not a moment too soon.)Plies (who pronounces his rap name like "pliers," more or less) comes from Fort Myers, Fla., and he earned himself an eager underground following with a series of mixtapes. Last year he proved that, contrary to conventional wisdom, legal problems don't actually help rappers' careers. After a nightclub shooting, he was charged with illegal possession of a concealed weapon; in the aftermath he was replaced by Snoop Dogg on an Akon collaboration called, "I Wanna Love You," which turned out to be a big hit.Now, after a series of delays, comes "The Real Testament," Plies's major-label debut, which sounds about as raw as his mixtapes. He uses a common racial epithet nonstop, and sometimes he uses a less common one too; the second song, "100 Yrs," is an attack on unscrupulous "crackers" who press for excessive prison sentences. In Plies's deep-Florida drawl and elastic approach to meter you might hear an echo of the gruff Miami rapper Trick Daddy. But Plies's reedy voice and hotblooded temperament give these songs a power all their own, whether he's taunting a probation officer or apologizing to his mother.No doubt the Atlantic executives are most excited about "Hypnotized," a brisk and breezy Akon collaboration that may well find a home on the pop charts. But the album also includes a slow and woozy revenge track ("Goons Lurkin"), as well as "1 Mo Time," in which Plies tries a notably unsentimental approach to seduction. Addressing the girlfriend who's leaving him, he admits he cheated and concedes it's over, but wonders whether the couple might take a final stroll down memory lane. It's a crude request, but not an unfriendly one; he knows that sometimes, it pays to be impolite.KELEFA SANNEHOKKERVIL RIVER"The Stage Names" (Jagjaguwar)Will Sheff, the singer and songwriter behind Okkervil River, spent years working himself into a fine indie-rock frenzy. On a series of increasingly assured albums and EPs he moaned lyrics that sounded like wordy confessions (although who really knows?) while his band cranked out countrified chord progressions or emo-ish paroxysms. After the artful hysteria of his 2005 album, "Black Sheep Boy," and its apocalyptic epilogue, "Black Sheep Boy Appendix," he took some time off to figure out his next move.The new Okkervil River sounds mellower than before, though that's not saying much. Mr. Sheff still has that mopey but passionate voice and he still loves to write intricate lyrics, presented as carefully punctuated short stories in the lyric booklet. But the howling climaxes have been replaced by gentler arrangements and lyrics that are looser, less obsessive. "Unless It's Kicks" starts with an unfussy guitar riff, although soon Mr. Sheff is describing the touring life in typically elaborate terms:What gives this mess some grace unless it's kicks, man — unless it's fictions, unless it's sweat or it's songs?What hits against this chest unless it's a sick man's handfrom some midlevel band? He's been driving too longon a dark windless night, with the stereo on,with the towns flying by, and the ground getting soft.This band's musical arsenal keeps getting fuller, and one of the album's pleasantest surprises is "A Hand to Take Hold of the Scene," which mimics the brisk new-wave of the Cure. Many of these songs sound like character sketches, some of which are sabotaged by mawkish lyrics. ("Title Track" builds to an ill-considered conclusion: "Don't call her a prostitute — she ain't one of those — /just call her a proper little statue come unfroze.") But while this album isn't as riveting as earlier Okkervil River CDs, there's plenty to enjoy, and plenty of reason for hope. Mr. Sheff used to sing as if his eyes were flooded or his hair were afire. Now he's figuring out that it's possible to calm down and keep going. KELEFA SANNEHCROWDED HOUSE"Time on Earth" (ATO)Ten years after disbanding, Crowded House was reunited last year by its songwriter, Neil Finn. Partway through recording a solo album, Mr. Finn reconvened the bassist Nick Seymour, a founder of the band in 1985, and the keyboardist and guitarist Mark Hart. One member was absent: the drummer Paul Hester, who suffered from depression and committed suicide in 2005. That's one reason the reunion album, "Time on Earth,"  is suffused with thoughts of mortality and mourning.Yet Crowded House has always been a pensive band, balancing melancholy and consolation in songs like its 1986 hit, "Don't Dream It's Over." In the new "Don't Stop Now," Mr. Finn sings, "Give me something I can write about/Give me something I can cry about." With Matt Sherrod on drums, Crowded House sounds like its old self (and like Mr. Finn's solo efforts). The music harks back to the folk rock and Merseybeat of the 1960s, backing straightforward melodies with guitars and piano.The reunited band doesn't pretend a decade hasn't passed. The 14 songs here are the thoughts of a grown-up songwriter. "Silent House," written with the Dixie Chicks, speaks to an aging relative whose memory is deteriorating; "English Trees" contemplates the aftermath of a long-ago breakup. A few songs are upbeat, like the ironically jaunty "She Called Up"  and the guardedly optimistic "Even a Child." But "Time on Earth" is filled with ballads and thoughts of how transient life is,  nowhere more so than in the aching, shimmering "A Sigh," which acknowledges, "No changing the story now."The reunited Crowded House is to perform  Wednesday and Thursday  at the Beacon Theater.JON PARELESBRUCE HORNSBY"Camp Meeting"(Legacy)Bruce Hornsby's music has always gestured toward jazz, if a bit obliquely. As a pianist and songwriter, he finds ways of infusing even the most straightforward pop tune with chord inversions, bop allusions, flights of improvisation. With "Camp Meeting" he has gone a step further, creating an instrumental jazz album with the drummer Jack DeJohnette and the bassist Christian McBride.An air of defensiveness hangs over this enterprise, which opens with a hide-and-seek Ornette Coleman composition, "Questions and Answers," and later tackles John Coltrane's "Giant Steps," the jazz equivalent of a standardized proficiency test. There are also themes by Bud Powell, Keith Jarrett and Thelonious Monk, all pianistic influences. Respect obviously isn't the problem here.The problem, if that's what you want to call it, is Mr. Hornsby's distinctive harmonic dialect and rhythmic stamp. His chord voicings on Miles Davis's "Solar," for instance, end up turning it into something like a Bruce Hornsby song. It doesn't help (or hurt, depending on your point of view) that Mr. DeJohnette and Mr. McBride accommodate Mr. Hornsby so graciously, bending toward a comfortably laid-back feel.Perhaps predictably, Mr. Hornsby sounds least pressured when he's playing his own songs. The most rewarding of the bunch is "Stacked Mary Possum," which taps into the same mythic Appalachia conjured on Mr. Hornsby's recent duet album with Ricky Skaggs. As the rhythm section brightly percolates beside him, he plays as if he has nothing to lose, or fear. Maybe for a moment he forgot he was playing jazz. NATE CHINENEVERYONE loves the blues. Some people just don't know it yet. Much like its followers, the blues has hitchhiked from one part of the country to another, evolving into new genres like R&B, soul and rock.As Willie Dixon said, "The blues is the roots; the rest is the fruits." Because the blues is the backbone of so much of the music heard today — even bluegrass and hip-hop — its rhythm and its message appeal to a wide audience."I didn't know I liked the blues" is a common refrain of new fans, said Nancy Edwards, director of marketing for the Blues Festival Guide. She estimates that there will be more than 530  blues festivals this year, giving blues lovers multiple opportunities to come together somewhere other than in a dark bar with a two-drink minimum."Everyone's had the blues, and if you haven't, then you really  haven't lived yet," said Heidi Knochenhauer, who is about to attend her ninth  Arkansas Blues and Heritage Festival  and has been volunteering there for five years.Commonly known as the Biscuit, the festival, in Helena, Ark., was originally named after "The King Biscuit Time Radio Show," the first radio show for live blues, which has been broadcasting from Helena since 1941.As many as 80,000 people, from many states and countries, typically attend the festival, which takes place over three days on a levee where the Mississippi River stretches half a mile wide. This year's mostly Delta blues lineup will include more than 60 acts on three stages as well as buskers on the town's streets. The festival will also pay tribute to the late Robert Lockwood Jr., who was born nearby in 1915.The Biscuit's fans are loyal: couples have returned to be married on its stage, and one man's  ashes were scattered on the grounds.  The festival is free, and some fans set up camp in a tent city.At 8,750 feet above sea level in Telluride, Colo., about 25,000 revelers over three days will set up lawn chairs and picnic blankets to see blues-inspired acts like Los Lonely Boys, Keb' Mo' and the Black Crowes at the Telluride Blues and Brews Festival. While the musicians play, the booths of 55 microbreweries will dispense 160 kinds of beer for a three-hour all-you-can-taste event on Saturday. After hours, hearty fans can purchase "the juke joint pass" for admittance to any of the town's five clubs to unite with musicians and fans into the wee hours.This year's San Francisco Blues Festival, held on the Great Meadow at Fort Mason, overlooking San Francisco Bay, will feature the sacred steel guitar music of Robert Randolph & the Family Band and a blues bash with Allen Toussaint, John Hammond and the Charlie Musselwhite Band playing together for the first time in a show.The Roots 'N Blues 'N BBQ Festival in Columbia, Mo., extends blues tradition to include roots music, which by definition includes the blues as well as gospel, country and other American traditional music, said Richard King, owner of the Blue Note Club in Columbia and programmer of the festival. Headliners will include Taj Mahal and Sierra Leone's Refugee All Stars. Cooks will compete in a barbecue competition.Far north of the birthplace of blues, the Edmonton's Labatt Blues Festival in Alberta runs on "a real blues mandate," said Cam Hayden, one of its producers. "It's all blues and nothing but the blues," he said. The festival takes place in a 1,200-seat amphitheater that was built primarily for outdoor theater  — including Shakespeare in the park — and provides  blues performers like Watermelon Slim and the Workers, EG Kight and Los Lobos with the gift of near-perfect acoustics.Also at the Edmonton festival will be Elvin Bishop, who says he has been playing blues "since the Dead Sea was sick." Blues lovers seem to have a desire to understand the music on a deeper level, Mr. Bishop added. "For some people it's just a surface thing, a trapping, like clothes or hairstyles," he said. "For blues people, it has to do with life."MORE INFORMATIONEDMONTON, ALBERTAWhat: Blues festival, www.bluesinternationalltd.com; 35 to 90 Canadian dollars (about $37 to $96 at 1.06 Canadian dollars to the U.S. dollar).When: Aug. 24 to 26.COLUMBIA, MO.What: Blues, roots and barbecue festival, www.rootsnbluesnbbq.com; free.When: Sept 7 and 8.TELLURIDE, COLO.What: Blues and beer fest; www.tellurideblues.com; $55 to $150.When: Sept. 14 to 16SAN FRANCISCOWhat: Blues festival, www.sfblues.com; tickets free to $80.When: Sept. 28 to 30HELENA, ARK.What: Blues festival, www.bluesandheritage.com; free.When: Oct. 4 to 6
