One country album toppled another from the top spot on the Billboard chart this week when Rascal Flatts's  "Still Feels Good" (Lyric Street) made its debut with sales of 547,000 copies, Nielsen SoundScan estimated. Last week's No. 1 album, Reba McEntire's "Reba Duets" (MCA Nashville), tumbled to No. 6, losing 57 percent of its first week sales of 301,00 copies. In a surge of new releases, Keyshia Cole's "Just Like You" (Imani/Geffen) captured second place by selling 281,000 copies, and the Foo Fighters took third with 168,000 copies of "Echoes, Silence, Patience & Grace" (Roswell/RCA) in its debut. Fourth place went to another newcomer, "The Real Thing: Words and Sounds Vol. 3" (Hidden Beach) from the R&B vocalist Jill Scott, with sales of 148,000 copies.The latest hit for "Saturday Night Live" on the Internet began taking shape on Sept. 24, when Andy Samberg and a group of his colleagues on the show were sitting around their offices, scrounging for a celebrity or politician "who could really use a love song right now." Around the same time, Seth Meyers, the show's head writer, was imagining a skit in which Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the president of Iran, would be depicted on a wild night out on the town.Before long the ideas fused, and by last Saturday, opening night for the 33rd season of "Saturday Night Live," the group had produced a three-minute music video titled "I Ran So Far Away." In it, a crooning, piano-playing Mr. Samberg and a doppelgänger for the Iranian president (his castmate Fred Armisen, bearded and in a gray suit and open-neck dress shirt) dance and appear to fall in love  —  giving apparent lie to Mr. Ahmadinejad's contention at Columbia University that there were no homosexuals in Iran.By yesterday afternoon, just four days after its network premiere, the various versions of the video posted on YouTube had been viewed nearly 300,000 times, according to tallies posted on the site. For Mr. Samberg and his main collaborators  —  Akiva Schaffer and Jorma Taccone  —  "I Ran" is something of a sequel. Last year, NBC posted an uncensored version of a boy-band video the group made — the cleaned-up title was "Special Treat in a Box" — in which Justin Timberlake and Mr. Samberg each appeared to be making a gift of their male anatomy. Thus far, that film has been seen more than 29 million times on YouTube, and last month it won an Emmy.However popular, such films — including "Lazy Sunday," a rapping homage to "The Chronicles of Narnia" — have not appeared to raise the ratings of the show itself. Last season, "Saturday Night Live" drew an average of about 6.4 million viewers a week, which was down from the year before. But the digital shorts have given the show, and Mr. Samberg in particular, a Web presence and cachet.Considering that Mr. Samberg and his crew typically create their digital films in little more than 48 hours, the six days they spent on "I Ran" made it feel like a feature film. First, Mr. Samberg said, they developed the song's R&B beat, which had elements of LL Cool J, the Wu-Tang Clan and an outright sample from Aphex Twin, an electronic performer.The chorus, "I Ran," is a knock-off of the 1980s Flock of Seagulls hit of the same name. But otherwise, the words were original. Among the more memorable lines Mr. Samberg sings to the Iranian president are:You can deny the Holocaust all you wantBut you can't deny that there's something between usAt another point, Mr. Samberg invokes "The Passion of the Christ" and its star, singing :They call you weaselThey say your methods are medievalYou can play the JewsI can be your Jim CaviezelThe film also features two cameos, personally arranged by Mr. Samberg. Adam Levine, the lead singer of the band Maroon 5, sings the "I Ran" chorus. Mr. Samberg, 29, said in an interview yesterday that he had sent a text message to a mutual friend, saying he had a perfect part for Mr. Levine to sing. The problem was that Mr. Levine was in Detroit. Mr. Samberg persuaded the singer to fly to New York early Friday morning. He then went straight to the makeshift recording studio in Mr. Samberg's office and, on only a few hours sleep, traveled to Brooklyn to film his scenes. He was back on a plane to Detroit by early afternoon.Another cameo, several seconds of Jake Gyllenhaal stroking his beard, was filmed in Los Angeles on Friday.While the cast's main goal was to have fun, Mr. Samberg said, the film has a political undertone. "No one around here," he said, "is super fired-up about a guy who is denying the Holocaust and saying there are no homosexuals in his country."WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 — When the Justice Department publicly declared torture "abhorrent" in a legal opinion in December 2004, the Bush administration appeared to have abandoned its assertion of nearly unlimited presidential authority to order brutal interrogations.But soon after Alberto R. Gonzales's arrival as attorney general in February 2005, the Justice Department issued another opinion, this one in secret. It was a very different document, according to officials briefed on it, an expansive endorsement of the harshest interrogation techniques ever used by the Central Intelligence Agency.The new opinion, the officials said, for the first time provided explicit authorization to barrage terror suspects with a combination of painful physical and psychological tactics, including head-slapping, simulated drowning and frigid temperatures.Mr. Gonzales approved the legal memorandum on "combined effects" over the objections of James B. Comey, the deputy attorney general, who was leaving his job after bruising clashes with the White House. Disagreeing with what he viewed as the opinion's overreaching legal reasoning, Mr. Comey told colleagues at the department that they would all be "ashamed" when the world eventually learned of it.Later that year, as Congress moved toward outlawing "cruel, inhuman and degrading" treatment, the Justice Department issued another secret opinion, one most lawmakers did not know existed, current and former officials said. The Justice Department document declared that none of the C.I.A. interrogation methods violated that standard.The classified opinions, never previously disclosed, are a hidden legacy of President Bush's second term and Mr. Gonzales's tenure at the Justice Department, where he moved quickly to align it with the White House after a 2004 rebellion by staff lawyers that had thrown policies on surveillance and detention into turmoil.Congress and the Supreme Court have intervened repeatedly in the last two years to impose limits on interrogations, and the administration has responded as a policy matter by dropping the most extreme techniques. But the 2005 Justice Department opinions remain in effect, and their legal conclusions have been confirmed by several more recent memorandums, officials said. They show how the White House has succeeded in preserving the broadest possible legal latitude for harsh tactics.A White House spokesman, Tony Fratto, said Wednesday that he would not comment on any legal opinion related to interrogations. Mr. Fratto added, "We have gone to great lengths, including statutory efforts and the recent executive order, to make it clear that the intelligence community and our practices fall within U.S. law" and international agreements.More than two dozen current and former officials involved in counterterrorism were interviewed over the past three months about the opinions and the deliberations on interrogation policy. Most officials would speak only on the condition of anonymity because of the secrecy of the documents and the C.I.A. detention operations they govern.When he stepped down as attorney general in September after widespread criticism of the firing of federal prosecutors and withering attacks on his credibility, Mr. Gonzales talked proudly in a farewell speech of how his department was "a place of inspiration" that had balanced the necessary flexibility to conduct the war on terrorism with the need to uphold the law.Associates at the Justice Department said Mr. Gonzales seldom resisted pressure from Vice President Dick Cheney and David S. Addington, Mr. Cheney's counsel, to endorse policies that they saw as effective in safeguarding Americans, even though the practices brought the condemnation of other governments, human rights groups and Democrats in Congress. Critics say Mr. Gonzales turned his agency into an arm of the Bush White House, undermining the department's independence.The interrogation opinions were signed by Steven G. Bradbury, who since 2005 has headed the elite Office of Legal Counsel at the Justice Department. He has become a frequent public defender of the National Security Agency's domestic surveillance program and detention policies at Congressional hearings and press briefings, a role that some legal scholars say is at odds with the office's tradition of avoiding political advocacy.Mr. Bradbury defended the work of his office as the government's most authoritative interpreter of the law. "In my experience, the White House has not told me how an opinion should come out," he said in an interview. "The White House has accepted and respected our opinions, even when they didn't like the advice being given."The debate over how terrorist suspects should be held and questioned began shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, when the Bush administration adopted secret detention and coercive interrogation, both practices the United States had previously denounced when used by other countries. It adopted the new measures without public debate or Congressional vote, choosing to rely instead on the confidential legal advice of a handful of appointees.The policies set off bruising internal battles, pitting administration moderates against hard-liners, military lawyers against Pentagon chiefs and, most surprising, a handful of conservative lawyers at the Justice Department against the White House in the stunning mutiny of 2004. But under Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Bradbury, the Justice Department was wrenched back into line with the White House.After the Supreme Court ruled in 2006 that the Geneva Conventions applied to prisoners who belonged to Al Qaeda, President Bush for the first time acknowledged the C.I.A.'s secret jails and ordered their inmates moved to Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. The C.I.A. halted its use of waterboarding, or pouring water over a bound prisoner's cloth-covered face to induce fear of suffocation.But in July, after a monthlong debate inside the administration, President Bush signed a new executive order authorizing the use of what the administration calls "enhanced" interrogation techniques — the details remain secret — and officials say the C.I.A. again is holding prisoners in "black sites" overseas. The executive order was reviewed and approved by Mr. Bradbury and the Office of Legal Counsel.Douglas W. Kmiec, who headed that office under President Ronald Reagan and the first President George Bush and wrote a book about it, said he believed the intense pressures of the campaign against terrorism have warped the office's proper role."The office was designed to insulate against any need to be an advocate," said Mr. Kmiec, now a conservative scholar at Pepperdine University law school. But at times in recent years, Mr. Kmiec said, the office, headed by William H. Rehnquist and Antonin Scalia before they served on the Supreme Court, "lost its ability to say no.""The approach changed dramatically with opinions on the war on terror," Mr. Kmiec said. "The office became an advocate for the president's policies."From the secret sites in Afghanistan, Thailand and Eastern Europe where C.I.A. teams held Qaeda terrorists, questions for the lawyers at C.I.A. headquarters arrived daily. Nervous interrogators wanted to know: Are we breaking the laws against torture?The Bush administration had entered uncharted legal territory beginning in 2002, holding prisoners outside the scrutiny of the International Red Cross and subjecting them to harrowing pressure tactics. They included slaps to the head; hours held naked in a frigid cell; days and nights without sleep while battered by thundering rock music; long periods manacled in stress positions; or the ultimate, waterboarding.Never in history had the United States authorized such tactics. While President Bush and C.I.A. officials would later insist that the harsh measures produced crucial intelligence, many veteran interrogators, psychologists and other experts say that less coercive methods are equally or more effective.With virtually no experience in interrogations, the C.I.A. had constructed its program in a few harried months by consulting Egyptian and Saudi intelligence officials and copying Soviet interrogation methods long used in training American servicemen to withstand capture. The agency officers questioning prisoners constantly sought advice from lawyers thousands of miles away."We were getting asked about combinations — 'Can we do this and this at the same time?'" recalled Paul C. Kelbaugh, a veteran intelligence lawyer who was deputy legal counsel at the C.I.A.'s Counterterrorist Center from September to December of 2003.Interrogators were worried that even approved techniques had such a painful, multiplying effect when combined that they might cross the legal line, Mr. Kelbaugh said. He recalled agency officers asking: "These approved techniques, say, withholding food, and 50-degree temperature — can they be combined?" Or "Do I have to do the less extreme before the more extreme?"The questions came more frequently, Mr. Kelbaugh said, as word spread about a C.I.A. inspector general inquiry unrelated to the war on terrorism. Some veteran C.I.A. officers came under scrutiny because they were advisers to Peruvian officers who in early 2001 shot down a missionary flight they had mistaken for a drug-running aircraft. The Americans were not charged with crimes, but they endured three years of investigation, saw their careers derailed and ran up big legal bills.That experience shook the Qaeda interrogation team, Mr. Kelbaugh said. "You think you're making a difference and maybe saving 3,000 American lives from the next attack. And someone tells you, 'Well, that guidance was a little vague, and the inspector general wants to talk to you,'" he recalled. "We couldn't tell them, 'Do the best you can,' because the people who did the best they could in Peru were looking at a grand jury."Mr. Kelbaugh said the questions were sometimes close calls that required consultation with the Justice Department. But in August 2002, the department provided a sweeping legal justification for even the harshest tactics.That opinion, which would become infamous as "the torture memo" after it was leaked, was written largely by John Yoo, a young Berkeley law professor serving in the Office of Legal Counsel. His broad views of presidential power were shared by Mr. Addington, the vice president's adviser. Their close alliance provoked John Ashcroft, then the attorney general, to refer privately to Mr. Yoo as Dr. Yes for his seeming eagerness to give the White House whatever legal justifications it desired, a Justice Department official recalled.Mr. Yoo's memorandum said no interrogation practices were illegal unless they produced pain equivalent to organ failure or "even death." A second memo produced at the same time spelled out the approved practices and how often or how long they could be used.Despite that guidance, in March 2003, when the C.I.A. caught Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the chief planner of the Sept. 11 attacks, interrogators were again haunted by uncertainty. Former intelligence officials, for the first time, disclosed that a variety of tough interrogation tactics were used about 100 times over two weeks on Mr. Mohammed. Agency officials then ordered a halt, fearing the combined assault might have amounted to illegal torture. A C.I.A. spokesman, George Little, declined to discuss the handling of Mr. Mohammed. Mr. Little said the program "has been conducted lawfully, with great care and close review" and "has helped our country disrupt terrorist plots and save innocent lives.""The agency has always sought a clear legal framework, conducting the program in strict accord with U.S. law, and protecting the officers who go face-to-face with ruthless terrorists," Mr. Little added.Some intelligence officers say that many of Mr. Mohammed's statements proved exaggerated or false. One problem, a former senior agency official said, was that the C.I.A.'s initial interrogators were not experts on Mr. Mohammed's background or Al Qaeda, and it took about a month to get such an expert to the secret prison. The former official said many C.I.A. professionals now believe patient, repeated questioning by well-informed experts is more effective than harsh physical pressure.Other intelligence officers, including Mr. Kelbaugh, insist that the harsh treatment produced invaluable insights into Al Qaeda's structure and plans."We leaned in pretty hard on K.S.M.," Mr. Kelbaugh said, referring to Mr. Mohammed. "We were getting good information, and then they were told: 'Slow it down. It may not be correct. Wait for some legal clarification.'"The doubts at the C.I.A. proved prophetic. In late 2003, after Mr. Yoo left the Justice Department, the new head of the Office of Legal Counsel, Jack Goldsmith, began reviewing his work, which he found deeply flawed. Mr. Goldsmith infuriated White House officials, first by rejecting part of the National Security Agency's surveillance program, prompting the threat of mass resignations by top Justice Department officials, including Mr. Ashcroft and Mr. Comey, and a showdown at the attorney general's hospital bedside.Then, in June 2004, Mr. Goldsmith formally withdrew the August 2002 Yoo memorandum on interrogation, which he found overreaching and poorly reasoned. Mr. Goldsmith, who left the Justice Department soon afterward, first spoke at length about his dissenting views to The New York Times last month, testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday.Six months later, the Justice Department quietly posted on its Web site a new legal opinion that appeared to end any flirtation with torture, starting with its clarionlike opening: "Torture is abhorrent both to American law and values and to international norms."A single footnote — added to reassure the C.I.A. — suggested that the Justice Department was not declaring the agency's previous actions illegal. But the opinion was unmistakably a retreat. Some White House officials had opposed publicizing the document, but acquiesced to Justice Department officials who argued that doing so would help clear the way for Mr. Gonzales's confirmation as attorney general.If President Bush wanted to make sure the Justice Department did not rebel again, Mr. Gonzales was the ideal choice. As White House counsel, he had been a fierce protector of the president's prerogatives. Deeply loyal to Mr. Bush for championing his career from their days in Texas, Mr. Gonzales would sometimes tell colleagues that he had just one regret about becoming attorney general: He did not see nearly as much of the president as he had in his previous post.Among his first tasks at the Justice Department was to find a trusted chief for the Office of Legal Counsel. First he informed Daniel Levin, the acting head who had backed Mr. Goldsmith's dissents and signed the new opinion renouncing torture, that he would not get the job. He encouraged Mr. Levin to take a position at the National Security Council, in effect sidelining him.Mr. Bradbury soon emerged as the presumed favorite. But White House officials, still smarting from Mr. Goldsmith's rebuffs, chose to delay his nomination. Harriet E. Miers, the new White House counsel, "decided to watch Bradbury for a month or two. He was sort of on trial," one Justice Department official recalled.Mr. Bradbury's biography had a Horatio Alger element that appealed to a succession of bosses, including Justice Clarence Thomas of the Supreme Court and Mr. Gonzales, the son of poor immigrants. Mr. Bradbury's father had died when he was an infant, and his mother took in laundry to support her children. The first in his family to go to college, he attended Stanford and the University of Michigan Law School. He joined the law firm of Kirkland & Ellis, where he came under the tutelage of Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent prosecutor.Mr. Bradbury belonged to the same circle as his predecessors: young, conservative lawyers with sterling credentials, often with clerkships for prominent conservative judges and ties to the Federalist Society, a powerhouse of the legal right. Mr. Yoo, in fact, had proposed his old friend Mr. Goldsmith for the Office of Legal Counsel job; Mr. Goldsmith had hired Mr. Bradbury as his top deputy."We all grew up together," said Viet D. Dinh, an assistant attorney general from 2001 to 2003 and very much a member of the club. "You start with a small universe of Supreme Court clerks, and you narrow it down from there."But what might have been subtle differences in quieter times now cleaved them into warring camps.Justice Department colleagues say Mr. Gonzales was soon meeting frequently with Mr. Bradbury on national security issues, a White House priority. Admirers describe Mr. Bradbury as low-key but highly skilled, a conciliator who brought from 10 years of corporate practice a more pragmatic approach to the job than Mr. Yoo and Mr. Goldsmith, both from the academic world."As a practicing lawyer, you know how to address real problems," said Noel J. Francisco, who worked at the Justice Department from 2003 to 2005. "At O.L.C., you're not writing law review articles and you're not theorizing. You're giving a client practical advice on a real problem."As he had at the White House, Mr. Gonzales usually said little in meetings with other officials, often deferring to the hard-driving Mr. Addington. Mr. Bradbury also often appeared in accord with the vice president's lawyer.Mr. Bradbury appeared to be "fundamentally sympathetic to what the White House and the C.I.A. wanted to do," recalled Philip Zelikow, a former top State Department official. At interagency meetings on detention and interrogation, Mr. Addington was at times "vituperative," said Mr. Zelikow, but Mr. Bradbury, while taking similar positions, was "professional and collegial."While waiting to learn whether he would be nominated to head the Office of Legal Counsel, Mr. Bradbury was in an awkward position, knowing that a decision contrary to White House wishes could kill his chances.Charles J. Cooper, who headed the Office of Legal Counsel under President Reagan, said he was "very troubled" at the notion of a probationary period."If the purpose of the delay was a tryout, I think they should have avoided it," Mr. Cooper said. "You're implying that the acting official is molding his or her legal analysis to win the job."Mr. Bradbury said he made no such concessions. "No one ever suggested to me that my nomination depended on how I ruled on any opinion," he said. "Every opinion I've signed at the Office of Legal Counsel represents my best judgment of what the law requires."Scott Horton, an attorney affiliated with Human Rights First who has closely followed the interrogation debate, said any official offering legal advice on the campaign against terror was on treacherous ground."For government lawyers, the national security issues they were deciding were like working with nuclear waste — extremely hazardous to their health," Mr. Horton said."If you give the administration what it wants, you'll lose credibility in the academic community," he said. "But if you hold back, you'll be vilified by conservatives and the administration."In any case, the White House grew comfortable with Mr. Bradbury's approach. He helped block the appointment of a liberal Ivy League law professor to a career post in the Office of Legal Counsel. And he signed the opinion approving combined interrogation techniques.Mr. Comey strongly objected and told associates that he advised Mr. Gonzales not to endorse the opinion. But the attorney general made clear that the White House was adamant about it, and that he would do nothing to resist.Under Mr. Ashcroft, Mr. Comey's opposition might have killed the opinion. An imposing former prosecutor and self-described conservative who stands 6-foot-8, he was the rare administration official who was willing to confront Mr. Addington. At one testy 2004 White House meeting, when Mr. Comey stated that "no lawyer" would endorse Mr. Yoo's justification for the N.S.A. program, Mr. Addington demurred, saying he was a lawyer and found it convincing. Mr. Comey shot back: "No good lawyer," according to someone present.But under Mr. Gonzales, and after the departure of Mr. Goldsmith and other allies, the deputy attorney general found himself isolated. His troublemaking on N.S.A. and on interrogation, and in appointing his friend Patrick J. Fitzgerald as special prosecutor in the C.I.A. leak case, which would lead to the perjury conviction of I. Lewis Libby, Mr. Cheney's chief of staff, had irreparably offended the White House."On national security matters generally, there was a sense that Comey was a wimp and that Comey was disloyal," said one Justice Department official who heard the White House talk, expressed with particular force by Mr. Addington.Mr. Comey provided some hints of his thinking about interrogation and related issues in a speech that spring. Speaking at the N.S.A.'s Fort Meade campus on Law Day — a noteworthy setting for the man who had helped lead the dissent a year earlier that forced some changes in the N.S.A. program — Mr. Comey spoke of the "agonizing collisions" of the law and the desire to protect Americans."We are likely to hear the words: 'If we don't do this, people will die,'" Mr. Comey said. But he argued that government lawyers must uphold the principles of their great institutions."It takes far more than a sharp legal mind to say 'no' when it matters most," he said. "It takes moral character. It takes an understanding that in the long run, intelligence under law is the only sustainable intelligence in this country."Mr. Gonzales's aides were happy to see Mr. Comey depart in the summer of 2005. That June, President Bush nominated Mr. Bradbury to head the Office of Legal Counsel, which some colleagues viewed as a sign that he had passed a loyalty test.Soon Mr. Bradbury applied his practical approach to a new challenge to the C.I.A.'s methods.The administration had always asserted that the C.I.A.'s pressure tactics did not amount to torture, which is banned by federal law and international treaty. But officials had privately decided the agency did not have to comply with another provision in the Convention Against Torture — the prohibition on "cruel, inhuman, or degrading" treatment.Now that loophole was about to be closed. First Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and then Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who had been tortured as a prisoner in North Vietnam, proposed legislation to ban such treatment.At the administration's request, Mr. Bradbury assessed whether the proposed legislation would outlaw any C.I.A. methods, a legal question that had never before been answered by the Justice Department.At least a few administration officials argued that no reasonable interpretation of "cruel, inhuman or degrading" would permit the most extreme C.I.A. methods, like waterboarding. Mr. Bradbury was placed in a tough spot, said Mr. Zelikow, the State Department counselor, who was working at the time to rein in interrogation policy."If Justice says some practices are in violation of the C.I.D. standard," Mr. Zelikow said, referring to cruel, inhuman or degrading, "then they are now saying that officials broke current law."In the end, Mr. Bradbury's opinion delivered what the White House wanted: a statement that the standard imposed by Mr. McCain's Detainee Treatment Act would not force any change in the C.I.A.'s practices, according to officials familiar with the memo.Relying on a Supreme Court finding that only conduct that "shocks the conscience" was unconstitutional, the opinion found that in some circumstances not even waterboarding was necessarily cruel, inhuman or degrading, if, for example, a suspect was believed to possess crucial intelligence about a planned terrorist attack, the officials familiar with the legal finding said.In a frequent practice, Mr. Bush attached a statement to the new law when he signed it, declaring his authority to set aside the restrictions if they interfered with his constitutional powers. At the same time, though, the administration responded to pressure from Mr. McCain and other lawmakers by reviewing interrogation policy and giving up several C.I.A. techniques.Since late 2005, Mr. Bradbury has become a linchpin of the administration's defense of counterterrorism programs, helping to negotiate the Military Commissions Act last year and frequently testifying about the N.S.A. surveillance program. Once he answered questions about administration detention policies for an "Ask the White House" feature on a Web site.Mr. Kmiec, the former Office of Legal Counsel head now at Pepperdine, called Mr. Bradbury's public activities a departure for an office that traditionally has shunned any advocacy role.A senior administration official called Mr. Bradbury's active role in shaping legislation and speaking to Congress and the press "entirely appropriate" and consistent with past practice. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Mr. Bradbury "has played a critical role in achieving greater transparency" on the legal basis for detention and surveillance programs.Though President Bush repeatedly nominated Mr. Bradbury as the Office of Legal Counsel's assistant attorney general, Democratic senators have blocked the nomination. Senator Durbin said the Justice Department would not turn over copies of his opinions or other evidence of Mr. Bradbury's role in interrogation policy."There are fundamental questions about whether Mr. Bradbury approved interrogation methods that are clearly unacceptable," Mr. Durbin said.John D. Hutson, who served as the Navy's top lawyer from 1997 to 2000, said he believed that the existence of legal opinions justifying abusive treatment is pernicious, potentially blurring the rules for Americans handling prisoners."I know from the military that if you tell someone they can do a little of this for the country's good, some people will do a lot of it for the country's better," Mr. Hutson said. Like other military lawyers, he also fears that official American acceptance of such treatment could endanger Americans in the future."The problem is, once you've got a legal opinion that says such a technique is O.K., what happens when one of our people is captured and they do it to him? How do we protest then?" he asked.COMEDYTARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall "Four Sides Of 40 Comedy Tour." Four stand-up headliners confront the joys, perils and fears of turning 40. Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $29.50. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. (877) 840-0457; www.tarrytownmusichall.org.FILMPEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts "Becoming Jane," directed by Julian Jarrold. Through Sept. 30. $7 to $9. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; www.paramountcenter.org.PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center "Into Great Silence," directed by Philip Groning; in French with English subtitles. Monday and Tuesday at 7 p.m. "Chalk," directed by Mike Akel. Wednesday at 5:15 and 7:15 p.m. "Le Doulos," directed by Jean-Pierre Melville; in French with English subtitles. Oct. 5 through Oct. 10. Admission for all: $6 to $10. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville Road. (914) 747-5555; www.burnsfilmcen-ter.org.VALHALLA Westchester Community College, Academic Arts Theater Friday Night Film: "Look at Me," directed by Agnes Jaoui and Jean-Pierre Bacri; in French with English subtitles. Friday at 8 p.m. $8 and $9 . Fine Arts Gallery, 75 Grasslands Road. (914) 606-6700.FOR CHILDRENKATONAH Katonah Museum of Art "Meet the Artist Sundays," signing with Paul O. Zelinsky, author of "Knick-Knack Paddywhack!" Sept. 30 at 3:30 p.m. Katonah Museum of Art, Route 22 at Jay Street. (914) 232-9555; www.katonahmuseum.org.MUSIC AND DANCEBRONXVILLE Osilas Gallery Music in the Gallery: Anteros String Quartet, jazz. Sept. 30 at 4 p.m. $10 to $20. OSilas Gallery, 171 White Plains Road. (914) 337-9300; www.osilasgallery.orgCUDDEBACKVILLE Neversink Valley Area Museum Eight Days of Blues and Miro Ludvik, folk and blues. Oct. 6 at 7:30 p.m. $5 to $7. Neversink Valley Area Museum, 26 Hoag Road. (845) 754-8870; www.neversinkmuseum.org.IRVINGTON Irvington Public Library "The Camerata String Quartet," works by Beethoven and Dvorak. Sept. 30 at 4 p.m. Free. Irvington Public Library, 12 South Astor Street. (914) 591-7840; www.irvingtonpubliclibrary.orgKATONAH Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts Brentano String Quartet. Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $40. "Rhythm 'Round the World," family music program. Oct. 6 at 11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. $10. Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts, 149 Girdle Ridge Road. (914) 232-1252; www.caramoor.com.PURCHASE Performing Arts Center Emily Mitchell, harp. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Free. Performing Arts Center, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; www.artscenter.org.PURCHASE Recital Hall, Music Arts Building Ladysmith Black Mambazo, a cappella vocal ensemble. Friday at 8 p.m. $30 to $50. Recital Hall, Music Arts Building, (914) 251-6700; www.artscenter.org.TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall Paolo Nutini. Oct. 7 at 8 p.m. $28 to $63. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. (877) 840-0457; www.tarrytownmusichall.org.VALHALLA Westchester Community College, Classroom Building 200 Achille I. Solisti di Montemarano, Italian folklore songs and dances. Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $10 to $12. Fine Arts Gallery, 75 Grasslands Road. (914) 606-7867. WHITE PLAINS Westchester Philharmonic Misha Dichter, pianist. Oct. 6 through Oct. 7. $22 to $67. Westchester Philharmonic, 123 Main Street. (914) 682-3707; www.westchesterphil.org.YONKERS Yonkers Public Library, Grinton I. Will branch The Virgil Scott Orchestra presents: "An Afternoon With the Big Bands." Sept. 30 at 2 p.m. Free. Yonkers Public Library, Grinton I. Will branch, 1500 Central Park Avenue. (914) 337-1500; www.ypl.org.OUTDOORSCROSS RIVER Ward Pound Ridge Reservation "Forest of Possibilities," works constructed in wood. Oct. 6 through 31. Free; parking, $4 to $8. Ward Pound Ridge Reservation, Routes 35 and 121 South. (914) 864-7317; www.westchestergov.com/parks/NatureCenters05/What'sNews/ForestofPossibilities.htm.CROTON-ON-HUDSON Van Cortlandt Manor "The Great Jack O'Lantern Blaze," 3,000 hand-carved, illuminated jack-o'-lanterns displayed in Van Cortlandt Manor's dark and mysterious 18th-century riverside landscape. Oct. 5 through 31. Van Cortlandt Manor, 525 South Riverside Avenue. (914) 631-8200; www.sleepyhollowhalloween.org.KATONAH John Jay Homestead Historic Site Annual Hudson River Valley Ramble, tour. Through Sept. 30. Free. John Jay Homestead Historic Site, Route 22. (914) 232-5651; www.johnjayhomestead.org.SPOKEN WORDPURCHASE Recital Hall, Music Arts Building Caryl Phillips reads from his new book "Foreigners." Wednesday at 7 p.m. $20. Recital Hall, Music Arts Building, (914) 251-6700; www.artscenter.org.SHRUB OAK John C. Hart Memorial Library Vesuvius and Pompeii: Myths and Facts, talk with Carolyn Doggett Smith. Sept. 30 at 2 p.m. Free. Discussion of "The Most Famous Man in America," by Debby Applegate. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Free. "Natural Healing," better health through natural alternatives. Friday. Free. John C. Hart Memorial Library, 1130 Main Street. (914) 962-3431; www.yorktownlibrary.org.THEATERCROTON FALLS Schoolhouse Theater "Locked and Loaded," dramatic comedy by Todd Susman. Through Oct. 14. $25 to $29. Schoolhouse Theater, 3 Owens Road. (914) 277-8477; www.schoolhouse-theater.org.LARCHMONT Larchmont Public Library Lanford Wilson's "Talley's Folly," presented by M & M productions. Oct. 7 at 4 p.m. Larchmont Public Library, 121 Larchmont Avenue. (914) 834-2281; www.larchmontlibrary.org.PURCHASE Performing Arts Center The Cashore Marionettes: "Simple Gifts," puppetry. Sept. 30 at noon and 3 p.m. $19 to $20. "1984," directed by Tim Robbins. Friday through Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $30 to $40. Performing Arts Center, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200.SPRING VALLEY Finkelstein Memorial Library Lanford Wilson's "Talley's Folly," presented by M & M productions.. Sept. 30 at 2 p.m. Free. Finkelstein Memorial Library, 24 Chestnut Street. (845) 352-5700; www.finkelsteinlibrary.org.MUSEUMS AND GALLERIESARMONK The Studio: An Alternative Space for Contemporary Art "Hearing Space," music created by the sounds of the environment. Through Nov. 11. Hours: Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. The Studio: An Alternative Space for Contemporary Art, 2 Maryland Avenue. (914) 273-1452; www.thestudiony-alternative.org.BEACON Freshman Fine Arts Gallery "Bridging of the Arts," group show. Through Oct. 14. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Freshman Fine Arts Gallery, 4 South Chestnut Street. (845) 440-8988; www.freshmanfineartsgallery.com.BEACON Go North: A Space for Contemporary Art "Neologisms," works by Rachel B. Abrams. Sept. 30 through Oct. 7. Hours: Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Friday by appointment. Go North: A Space for Contemporary Art, 469 Main Street. (845) 242-1951; www.gonorth-gallery.blogspot.com. BRONXVILLE OSilas Gallery Body & Soul: "From Exploration to Expression," paintings, sculptures, and photography. Through Oct. 27. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 11:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 2 to 5 p.m. OSilas Gallery, 171 White Plains Road. (914) 337-9300; www.osilasgallery.org. GARRISON Garrison Art Center "Lorenzo Porcelli: Works in Paper and Wood." Through Oct. 7. Garrison Art Center, 23 Garrison's Landing. (845) 424-3960; www.garrisonartcenter.org.GREENBURGH Greenburgh Town Hall "Art From the Heart," sketches by Merle Sternberg. Through Oct. 30. Free. Greenburgh Town Hall, 177 Hillside Avenue. (914) 993-1649.HARRISON Harrison Public Library "Costume, Objects, and Images," paintings by Alfred W. Haywood. Through Oct. 5. Hours: Mondays and Wednesdays, 9:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays, to 12:30 p.m. Harrison Public Library, Bruce Avenue. (914) 835-0324; www.westchesterlibraries.org/libs/harrison/events.htm.HUDSON John Davis Gallery Works by Tom Nicol. Through Oct. 7. John Davis Gallery, 361  ½ Warren Street. (518) 828-5907; www.johndavisgallery.com.KATONAH Candace Dwan Gallery Ladakh: "The Spiritual Journey," photographs by Prabir Purkayastha. Through Oct. 31. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Candace Dwan Gallery, 27 Katonah Avenue. (914) 232-3966; www.candacedwan.com.KATONAH Katonah Museum of Art "Children Should Be Seen: The Image of the Child in American Picture Book Art," illustrations. Through Oct. 21. "Star Illustrators: Ten Years on Parade," works by picture-book illustrators. Through Oct. 21. "On the South Lawn: Acrobats," works by Keith Haring. Through Nov. 15. "Horizons," sculpture installation by Steinunn Thorarinsdottir. Through March 16. Admission: $3 and $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Katonah Museum of Art, Route 22 at Jay Street. (914) 232-9555; www.katonahmuse-um.org.LIBERTY Catskill Artists Gallery Works by Robert Friedman. Oct. 6 through Nov. 18. Reception: Oct. 6 from 5 to 8 p.m. Hours: Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Catskill Artists Gallery, 38 South Main Street. (845) 292-0310; www.catskillartistsgallery.com.MOHEGAN LAKE Victor's Salon "Where Beauty Meets Artistry," works by Leigh Trifari. Through Nov. 30. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Wednesdays through Thursday, 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Victor's Salon, 3432 Lexington Avenue. (914) 528-4247.MONTROSE Hendrick Hudson Free Library "Snap, Crackle, and Pop," sculptures by Leslie Lew. Tuesday through Oct. 30. Hours: Mondays and Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Hendrick Hudson Free Library, 185 Kings Ferry Road. (914) 739-5654; www.henhudfreelibrary.org.NEW ROCHELLE Castle Gallery "The Art of Magic: Magic Memorabilia From the Collection of Nelson Nicholson." Through Nov. 11. Hours: Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Castle Gallery, 29 Castle Place. (914) 654-5423; www.cnr.edu.NEW ROCHELLE Third Rail Studio "Decades: A Peter Siegel Retrospective," celebration of 40 years of paintings and drawings.. Through Oct. 13. Free. Hours: Thursdays and Saturdays, 1 to 5 p.m. Third Rail Studio, 49 Plain Avenue. (914) 712-9831; www.3rdrailstudio.com.PEEKSKILL Flat Iron Gallery "David Fox: A Retrospective: Figures and Small Works," drawings and paintings. Through Sept. 30. Hours: Fridays, 3 to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Flat Iron Gallery, 105 South Division Street. (914) 734-1894; www.flatiron.qpg.-com.PEEKSKILL Gallery 25N Paintings and sculptures by Dyan Rosenberg. Through Nov. 3. Hours: Thursdays through Saturdays, 1 to 5 p.m., or by appointment. Gallery 25N, 25 North Division Street. (914) 293-0811; www.gallery25N.com.PEEKSKILL Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art "Size Matters: XS," small-scale paintings. Through Nov. 10. $1 to $5; children and members, free. Hours: Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m., and by appointment. Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art, 1701 Main Street. (914) 788-0100; www.hvcca.com.PLEASANTVILLE Mount Pleasant Public Library Slide show on Russia and the Ukraine. Sept. 30. Free. Hours: Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Wednesdays, to 6 p.m.; Fridays through Sundays, to 5 p.m. Mount Pleasant Public Library, 350 Bedford Road. (914) 769-0548; www.mountpleasantlibrary.org.POUGHKEEPSIE Locust Grove Guided house tours. Through Nov. 30. $6 and $9. Locust Grove, 2683 South Road (Route 9). (845) 454-4500, Extension, 17.POUGHKEEPSIE Vassar College "Hudson River School Trilogy: A Focused Collection; Drawings From Dia; Selections From the Permanent Collection," group show. Through Oct. 21. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Vassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center. (845) 437-5632; .fllac.vassar.edu.PURCHASE Brownson Gallery Anecdotes: Collage and Digital Montage, works by Leonard Stokes. Sept. 30 through Oct. 24. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9:30 a.m to 5 p.m. and by appointment. Brownson Gallery, 2900 Purchase Street. (914) 323-5331; www.mville.edu. RHINEBECK Montgomery Row Second Level "Camera Vision," photography by Maureen Gates. Monday through Nov. 11. Hours: Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Montgomery Row Second Level, 6423 Montgomery Street (Route 9). (845) 876-6670; www.montgomeryrow.com.RYE Rye Free Reading Room "Third Time's a Charm," watercolor paintings by Patti Gaulin. Monday through Nov. 16. Free. Rye Free Reading Room, 1061 Boston Post Road. (914) 967-0480; www.ryelibrary.org.SCARSDALE Greenburgh Nature Center "Exploring Life's Rhythms," works by Vivian Bergenthal. Through Sept. 30. $3 to $5; children under 2, free. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Greenburgh Nature Center, 99 Dromore Road. (914) 723-3470; www.greenburghnaturecenter.org.SCARSDALE Madelyn Jordon Fine Art "Sublime," oil on canvas by Antonio Carreno. Through Oct. 13. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Madelyn Jordon Fine Art, 14 Chase Road. (914) 723-8738; www.madelynjordonfineart.com.VALHALLA Fine Arts Gallery Carol Hamoy, art exhibit. Through Oct. 6. Free. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Thursdays, 6 to 8 p.m. Fine Arts Gallery, 75 Grasslands Road. (914) 606-7867.WHITE PLAINS Arts Exchange "Tzedakah: A Path to Righteousness," five collections of charity boxes. Through Oct. 27. Arts Exchange, 31 Mamaroneck Avenue. (914) 428-4220, Extension, 223; www.westarts.com.POPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music. !!! (Thursday)  Punk-funk usually leans on the punk side, with short blasts of indignation or defiance filtered through dance beats. This local eight-piece (whose name is pronounced "chik-chik-chik," or, they say, however you want) goes for immersion, transcendence and kicks, through long and steady workouts of aggressive disco-rock, making each groove last until it burns up or falls apart. With the Field and Scottie B. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $20 in advance, $22 at the door. (Ben Sisario) TORI AMOS  (Thursday) Ms. Amos's new record, "American Doll Posse," is written from the perspectives of five alter egos, supported by a fantastical imagination and her usual wide musical personality.  At 8 p.m., WaMu Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 307-7171, wamuatmsg.com; $39.50 to $60. (Ben Ratliff)MARC ANTHONY/JENNIFER LOPEZ (Sunday and Monday) One sings, the other doesn't particularly well. But the one who has made a career as a singer — Mr. Anthony — has one of the most dramatic voices in Latin pop, tenderly imploring and pealing with passion. He lent his expertise with songwriting and arrangement to Ms. Lopez for her Spanish-language pop album, doing all he could around the limitations of her voice. At 7:30 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $49.50 to $250. (Jon Pareles)ARCADE FIRE, LCD SOUNDSYSTEM, BLONDE REDHEAD (Saturday)  We don't have a Lollapalooza or Coachella or Pitchfork festival in New York, so this show at Randalls Island, while smaller by orders of magnitude, will have to suffice as our outdoor indie-rock bonanza. Arcade Fire, from Montreal, has conquered the indie scene with an artsy eccentricity and a disarming emotional clarity; its latest, "Neon Bible" (Merge), searches for joy in the midst of apocalyptic gloom. James Murphy's punk-edged disco in LCD Soundsystem — sharp and sexy but unapologetically silly, retro but smartly innovative — has roots across the dance-rock map but is unmistakably a product of New York. Blonde Redhead, its days of spindly, atonal guitar webs apparently behind it, has lately been making lusher, more cottony music, as if finally realizing that its amplifiers have reverb buttons. Also on the bill: Les Savy Fav and Wild Light. At 3:30 p.m., (212) 307-7171; $39.50. (Sisario)ARCHITECTURE IN HELSINKI (Thursday)  When this Australian group is at its best, it comes across as a joyful gang of hyperactive, hypercreative 9-year-olds, banging on a menagerie of instruments as if discovering them. At its worst, it comes across as an obnoxious gang of hyperactive 9-year-olds banging on a menagerie of instruments. At 9 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171;  $20. (Sisario)BLACK MOUNTAIN (Wednesday and Thursday) This squally Canadian band plays 1970s-influenced hard rock at its most digressive, by turns ominous and bucolic. Wednesday at 8:30 p.m., with Gowns, a pleasingly unsettling California group that scrambles gurgling electronics, punkish petulance and indie-rock murmuring; Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $12 in advance, $14 at the door. Thursday at 9 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $12. (Kelefa Sanneh)THE BLOW (Friday) Formerly a two-person band — Khaela Maricich and Jona Bechtolt — and now a one-woman band since the departure of Mr. Bechtolt this year, the Blow offers nearly affectless, homemade post-pop out of spindly melodies and simple beats. At 9 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800 or (212) 307-7171; $15. (Ratliff)TOM BROSSEAU (Friday) A young, North Dakota-born singer-songwriter with an acoustic guitar, unabashedly folk and literary in the old style. What sets him apart is his light, graceful voice, seemingly too high and flexible for his genre. At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15. (Ratliff)JIM CAMPILONGO (Thursday) Through the lean, ropy sound of his Fender Telecaster, Mr. Campilongo connects American styles (blues, rock, country, jazz, R&B) in a sly, knowing way.  At 8 p.m., Barbès, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; $10 donation suggested. (Ratliff)CARIBOU (Saturday) Caribou is Dan Snaith, the Canadian producer and bandleader who once recorded and performed under the name Manitoba. He's known for hazy but precise songs and soundscapes; his new album is "Andorra" (Merge). With Born Ruffians and Heavens (the project of Rusty Santos, not the Alkaline Trio side project of the same name). At 9 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15 in advance, $18 at the door. (Sanneh)COMMON (Sunday) With a little help from Kanye West, a fellow Chicagoan, this veteran rapper saw his new album, "Finding Forever" (G.O.O.D./Geffen), make its debut at No. 1 on the Billboard chart. At this concert expect him to celebrate in the only way he knows how: with rambling rhymes that echo the unpredictable rhythms of conversational speech, and with plenty of cheerful exhortation. Also on the bill: Q-Tip, whose fans will probably always be nostalgic for his old group, A Tribe Called Quest. At 9 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; sold out. (Sanneh)DIGITALISM (Thursday) This German duo seems to have been inspired by Daft Punk and other purveyors of raucous, playful house music. Its full-length debut is "Idealism" (Astralwerks), and it's part of an onslaught that has made 2007 an unexpectedly big year for rock-friendly electronic dance music. At 10 p.m., Studio B, 259 Banker Street, between Meserole Avenue and Calyer Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 389-1880, clubstudiob.com; $12.50 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sanneh)DIPLO (Friday) A few years ago Diplo was best known as a party D.J., one half of the hugely entertaining Philadelphia duo Hollertronix. Since then he has helped introduce American indie-rockers (who constitute a good portion of his following) to the exuberant Brazilian genre known as Baile funk; he has worked with M.I.A.; and he has started a record label, Mad Decent. Come Saturday morning, he will also be able to say that he has played what is billed as a "New Yorker dance party," as part of the annual New Yorker Festival. With Nick Catchdubs. At 10 p.m., Hiro Ballroom, 371 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-0212, festival.newyorker.com; $20. (Sanneh)DJ PREMIER (Sunday) His staccato, sample-driven compositions helped define hip-hop in the 1990s. With his duo, Gang Starr, and in the classic tracks he has produced for other rappers (including Nas, the Notorious B.I.G. and Jay-Z), DJ Premier has used artfully arranged snippets and hard backbeats to emphasize hip-hop's debt to jazz; last year he made an unexpected appearance on the pop charts as a producer of the Christina Aguilera single "Ain't No Other Man." Also on the bill: DJ Evil Dee, the deft Brooklyn-based producer, and a live performance from DJ Premier's protégés in the group NYGz. At 6 p.m., the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, knittingfactory.com; $15. (Sanneh)THE DONNAS (Wednesday) This cheerfully retro hard-rock band survived a less-than-triumphant stint with Atlantic Records, which tried — and failed, mainly — to make the Donnas a mainstream sensation. So the four Donnas regrouped and released their new album, "Bitchin'," on their own label, Purple Feather. With Donita Sparks and the Stellar Moments. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $17 in advance; $20 at the door. (Sanneh)EARLIMART (Wednesday) In the delicate songs of this Los Angeles indie band you can hear the wistful influence of Elliott Smith, along with scads of half-forgotten AM radio hits and misses. The new album is "Mentor Tormentor" (Majordomo), which aims for dreaminess but sometimes arrives at sleepiness instead. With Office. At 8 p.m., the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, knittingfactory.com; $15.(Sanneh)JEREMY ENIGK (Tuesday) He's the singer-songwriter who spent years leading Sunny Day Real Estate, one of those much missed — and unexpectedly influential — emo bands from the 1990s, before emo stormed (or sneaked) up the pop charts. His most recent solo album is "The Missing Link" (567). With Kevin Devine. At 9 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $15. (Sanneh)★ THOMAS FEHLMANN (Friday) This veteran German producer and D.J. has been playing with pulses and noises and silences since the 1970s. More recently, he has become a member of the the Orb, the long-running British act known for spaced-out electronic tracks; Mr. Fehlmann's most recent solo album is "Honigpumpe" (Kompakt), a typically elegant, propulsive disc full of glimmering emptiness. With Daniel Meteo. At 11 p.m., Galapagos Art Space, 70 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 782-5188, beyondbooking.com; $15. (Sanneh)THE FIERY FURNACES (Saturday) This knotty and sometimes great indie-rock sibling act is coming to a Brooklyn record shop. It's a celebration of the duo's new album, "Widow's Peak" (Thrill Jockey), and it's also a send-off party: the Fiery Furnaces' fall tour starts next week in Kentucky, and they aren't scheduled to play New York until Nov. 3. At 8 p.m., Sound Fix Records, 110 Bedford Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 388-8090; free. (Sanneh) HOWARD FISHMAN (Tuesday) A singer and guitar player who has been mining the American folk-music past with specificity and humor.  7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15. (Ratliff)FORRO FOR ALL (Saturday) A band led by the New Yorker Rob Curto, Forro for All plays forro music from Northeastern brazil: an almost irresistible country-style dance music, often boiled down to just accordion, triangle and bass drum. At 10 p.m., Barbès, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; $10 donation is suggested. (Ratliff)★ P J HARVEY (Wednesday) Trading guitar for piano, chest voice for head voice and heavy bellows for breathy whispers, Ms. Harvey has done another transformation on her folkish new record, "White Chalk."  Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212)307-7171, beacontheaternyc.com; sold out. (Ratliff)HAZMAT MODINE (Saturday)  Scruffy old blues and swing become the vehicle in which this kitchen-sink New York band — two harmonicas, guitars and a jungle gym of brass — wanders the world in a kind of musical travelogue: now visiting Eastern European Gypsy sounds, now Jamaican rocksteady, now some Tuvan throat singing. Unlike a lot of high-concept globalists, Hazmat Modine makes it all work by maintaining a strong sense of home. At 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15. (Sisario) ★ HIGH ON FIRE (Monday and Tuesday) Bad news first. Matt Pike, guitarist and leader of the doom-metal trio High on Fire, had his Gibson Les Paul broken by baggage handlers while traveling on the band's last tour. It was more than a guitar, it was a totem. But he's got a new custom-made nine-string, and the band has a new album, "Death Is This Communion." The riffs have risen again. With Mono, Panthers and Coliseum, Monday at 8 p.m.,  Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 307-7171, bowerypresents.com; $20 in advance, $25 at the door. Tuesday at  8 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Wiliamsburg, Brooklyn, (212) 307-7171, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $20 in advance, $25 at the door. (Ratliff) HIVES (Tuesday) A Swedish band making a funny, loud, disciplined turn on garage rock, and working the visual angle hard; this is its local headlining show, the night before it opens for Maroon 5 in the year's (so far) unlikeliest double bill.  At 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village; sold out. (Ratliff)JASON ISBELL (Wednesday) Mr. Isbell is a singer-songwriter who recently left the Drive-By Truckers; his new solo album is "Sirens of the Ditch" (New West). With the Whigs, and also the Felice Brothers, an emerging young group that specializes in vehement, unabashedly old-fashioned folk-rock. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $12 in advance; $15 at the door.(Sanneh)★ ISSA (Wednesday) The highly independent Canadian songwriter Jane Siberry, who renamed herself Issa last year, could be a sister to Joni Mitchell, Laurie Anderson and Sarah McLachlan. Her songs, like "Calling All Angels," are full of tenderness and ambition. She will be performing solo and unamplified. At 7 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $40 in advance; $45 day of show. (Pareles)SHARON JONES AND THE DAP-KINGS (Saturday) The Dap-Kings band has lent its vintage soul sound to Amy Winehouse and Lily Allen, but its longtime front woman, Sharon Jones, is a full-fledged, gospel-rooted American soul singer. Playing a room as historic as the Apollo should bring out the band's best. At 8 p.m., Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 531-5300, apollotheater.org; $25. (Pareles)RICHARD JULIAN, SASHA DOBSON (Thursday) Mr. Julian is one of the better New York songwriters to come along in the last 10 years, and Sasha Dobson is one of the better New York jazz singers of the same period; they're often working in a fertile, nebulous zone between pop and jazz. With Patti Rothberg.  At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $15 in advance; $17 at the door. (Ratliff)KID ROCK (Tuesday) Bon vivant, uniter of hip-hop and biker-rock, husband of Pamela Anderson, puncher of Tommy Lee, Kid Rock brings his show to a smaller stage than usual to celebrate the release of a new album, "Rock and Roll Jesus."  At 7 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Plaza, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; sold out. (Ratliff)MANÁ (Tuesday)  Mexico's most popular rock group, Maná mingles its Police-derived groove with elements of norteño and reggae, and sings about human rights, environmentalism and AIDS. But plenty of the band's songs are about the good old battle of the sexes too: its latest album is "Amar es Combatir" ("To Love Is to Fight"). At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $46 to $105.50. (Sisario)MAROON 5 (Wednesday) The debut Maroon 5 album, "Songs About Jane," was released in 2002, and it took years to become a blockbuster. So you can expect that record executives will be patient — which is to say, obdurate — in flogging the follow-up, "It Won't Be Soon Before Long" (A&M/Octone), which was released in May. No word on whether the singer Adam Levine will reprise "I Ran So Far Away," a love song to Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, from last week's "Saturday Night Live." With the natty, energetic Swedish garage-rock band the Hives. At 7:30 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $24.50 to $62.50. (Sanneh)JOHN MAYALL, DAVE MASON (Tuesday and Wednesday) John Mayall is the British blues singer, guitarist and keyboardist whose work and whose band alumni have intersected with much better-known names, including Cream, Fleetwood Mac and Canned Heat; he's sharing the bill with the singer-songwriter Dave Mason, once of Traffic.  At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $35 in advance, $37 day of show. (Ratliff)COUNTRY JOE MCDONALD TRIBUTE TO WOODY GUTHRIE (Wednesday) Playing Guthrie's work without trying to mimic his voice, Mr. McDonald is on to an ever-rewarding project: mining those songs for all their information about archetypal American attitudes.  At 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org; $30. (Ratliff) MELVINS (Friday and Saturday) The shorthand term for the kind of rock descending from early Black Sabbath and late Black Flag is "sludge," because it's so slow and dense. But that sludge is mineral-rich, too: it's given the Melvins 25 years of life. Friday at 8 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan,(212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com, $20; Saturday at 8 p.m., Luna Lounge, 361 Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, lunalounge.com, $20.(Ratliff)MINUS THE BEAR (Friday and Saturday) In August this Seattle band released "Planet of Ice" (Suicide Squeeze), which splits the difference between mellow indie-pop and grand progressive rock; in the band's oblique grooves you can hear the influence of jazz-inflected Chicago acts like Tortoise and the Sea and Cake. Friday at 8 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505, warsawconcerts.com; $20. Saturday at 8 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; sold out. (Sanneh)ERICK MORILLO (Saturday) He has established himself as one of New York's most popular dance-music D.J.'s, known for raucous, clattering sets that sometimes gesture toward his love of Latin music. (And he was also the force behind "I Like to Move It," the 1990s club smash.) And this weekend he is scheduled to play a "12-hour marathon" set; the city's most dedicated revelers will try to keep up. At 10 p.m., Pacha, 618 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 209-7500, pachanyc.com; $30. (Sanneh)THE MUSIC OF ELTON JOHN AND BERNIE TAUPIN (Wednesday) In a benefit for the Music for Youth, Elton John's hits will be sung by Roger McGuinne, Aimee Mann, Phoebe Snow, Shawn Colvin, Lizz Wright, Raul Malo and others. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $40 to $150. (Pareles)THE NATIONAL, ST. VINCENT (Thursday)  The National, whose show on Thursday will open Terminal 5, a major new midsize concert hall in Midtown Manhattan, has built a follow ing with flawless, wilting ballads featuring the weary baritone of Matt Berninger, who seems pained by his ability to conjure cruelties like "You could have been a legend/But you became a father." Don't miss the opening act, St. Vincent, a k a Annie Clark, a young songwriter whose debut album, "Marry Me" (Beggars Banquet), is a small universe of grandeur and romance that recalls the prime of Kate Bush. At 7 p.m., 610 West 56th Street, Clinton, (212) 260-4700, terminal5nyc.com; sold out . (Sisario)★ ORISHAS / YERBA BUENA (Monday) Latin music at its most synergistic. Orishas, a hip-hop trio originally from Cuba, raps and sings over a spectrum of pan-American grooves. Orishas' producer, Andres Levin, leads Yerba Buena, a New York City band that makes sly, joyful hybrids of everything from salsa to reggae to funk. At 9 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; $40 to $65. (Pareles)PINBACK (Tuesday) This San Diego indie-rock band has built a devoted following with tense and sometimes tangled songs that feel both light and obstinate. Pinback comes to town next week to celebrate the release of "Autumn of the Seraphs" (Touch and Go), an album full of songs that float (often prettily) while refusing to come untethered. With MC Chris, an extraordinarily irritating rapper. At 8 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; $20. (Sanneh)PIPETTES (Monday)  The most lovable kind of retro act, the Pipettes are three young British women who dress in identical polka dots and mimic '60s girl groups in harmonies that are sassy and flirtatious but strictly approximate. With Monster Bobby. At 7:30 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800,  irvingplaza.com; $18.50 in advance, $20 at the door. (Sisario)QUI (Tuesday) It's the return of David Yow, the charismatic and slightly unhinged singer from the great old post-punk bands Scratch Acid and the Jesus Lizard. Qui's first record, "Love's Miracle" (Ipecac), offers smart, strange hard rock.  At 8 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, East Village, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10 in advance; $12 day of show. (Ratliff)RAVEONETTES, NICOLE ATKINS (Wednesday and Thursday)  The Raveonettes, from Denmark, are in love with all the sexy, silly rock of pre-hippie America: motorcycle vamps, Buddy Holly melodies and Sam Cooke chain gangs. They blare through a repertory of lean, minimalist tunes with a noisy nihilism derived from the Velvet Underground and the Jesus and Mary Chain. Nicole Atkins, from Neptune, N.J., is a talented fantasist with a bit of Rufus Wainwright in her, spinning prom-night-beautiful piano ballads with a moody, cinematic sweep. Wednesday at 8:30 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $15. Thursday at 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $15. (Sisario)★ RIHANNA (Thursday) Her candy-coated love song "Umbrella" was arguably the song of the summer; months later plenty of people still have that fiendishly catchy refrain ("Um-ba-rella, ella, ella, eh, eh, eh ...") stuck in their heads. It came from Rihanna's impressive third album, "Good Girl Gone Bad" (Def Jam), which seems to contain almost nothing but potential hits. With Kat DeLuna. At 8 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; $39.50. (Sanneh)MARK RONSON (Friday)  The producer of the cleverest songs of Lily Allen and Amy Winehouse, Mr. Ronson pushes vintage R&B sounds through a filter of comic hip-hop, and on his new album, "Version" (RCA), performs loving graffiti on songs by Coldplay and the Smiths. At 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $25. (Sisario)GIL SCOTT-HERON (Thursday) Mr. Scott-Heron — singer, songwriter and poet, influential on hip-hoppers, soul singers and many others — has had a rough time with drugs and courtrooms since 2001, and he was paroled last May after serving almost a year in jail. In September he successfully came back to performing; here's to more of the same. At 8 p.m., SOB's, 200 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $22 in advance; $25 day of show. (Ratliff)MARCO ANTONIO SOLIS (Friday) Once a founding member of Los Bukis, one of the better-known pop bands in Mexico from the '70s to the '90s, Mr. Solis is the kind of Latin-pop balladeer whose audiences don't abandon him easily.  At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 307-7171, thegarden.com; $59.50 to $129.(Ratliff)★ CHANGO SPASIUK (Sunday) There's more to Argentine music than tango. The accordion virtuoso Chango Spasiuk champions a vigorous regional style called chamamé, with driving six-beat rhythms. His group includes dancers. At 7 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400 or (212) 545-7536, symphonyspace.org; $27; $15 for students. (Pareles)★ BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (Tuesday and Wednesday) It's Mr. Springsteen's tour behind his new album, "Magic," and his return to the big gestures of the E Street Band. At 7:30 p.m., Continental Airlines Arena, East Rutherford, N.J, (201) 935-3900, meadowlands.com; $65 to $95.(Ratliff)SUNSET RUBDOWN (Monday and Tuesday)  A solo enterprise of the prolific Spencer Krug, who sings and plays keyboards in the Montreal indie-arty band Wolf Parade, Sunset Rubdown is one of those weirdly fascinating bedroom noise projects characterized by stompy lo-fi backing tracks and evocative stream-of-consciousness lyrics ("Shut up, I am dreaming of places where lovers have wings"). With Johnny and the Moon, and Magic Weapon. Monday at 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; Tuesday at 9 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $15 in advance, $17 at the door for each. (Sisario)KAMILA THOMPSON (Sunday and Thursday) If you know who Richard and Linda Thompson are, you have presumably heard of their son, Teddy, a singer-songwriter like his parents, but you may not yet have heard of Kamila, Teddy's sister. She has been working on her own record of clever and thoughtful songs, with contributions from her own distinguished family members, as well as a Wainwright and a Lennon. Sunday at 8 p.m.,  the Living Room, 154 Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235,  livingroomny.com, no cover; Thursday, 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater,  425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $12. (Ratliff)★ TIGER ARMY (Thursday) This so-called psychobilly trio delivered one of the year's most pleasant punk-rock surprises: an unpredictable album, "Music From Regions Beyond" (Hellcat/Epitaph), that included pop-punk ballads, a Spanish-language love song and a surprisingly likable New Order rip-off. By now the group's debt to rockabilly is subtle but not erased; listen carefully and you can still hear the thwack of a double bass. At 8 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $15 in advance, $17 at the door. (Sanneh)LOUDON WAINWRIGHT III, LEON REDBONE  (Tuesday) Loudon Wainwright isn't exactly freak-folk; he's too good a singer (in the traditional sense of "good") and too linear a writer. But his new album is called "Strange Weirdos," and he and Leon Redbone are both patron saints of acoustic idiosyncracy.  At 7 p.m., Peter Norton Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-6400, bowerypresents.com; $45. (Ratliff)WORDLESS MUSIC: VALGEIR SIGURDSSON, SANDO PERI, NICO MUHLY (Friday) It's a triple bill of modesty and small-scale sounds. The Icelandic singer-songweriter Valgeir Sigurdsson works with electronics and a world-weary voice; the Canadian singer-songwriter Sandro Perri uses real instruments, no electronics at all and a voice like a muted trumpet; and the wide-ranging New Yorker Nico Muhly comes more squarely out of 20th-century classical composition, writing sweet pieces for strings, woodwinds, voices and other textures. Part of the Wordless Music Series. At 8 p.m., Good Shepherd Faith Church, Amsterdam Avenue and West 66th Street, wordlessmusic.org; $15. (Ratliff)Do We Really Know What Makes Us Healthy?Gary Taubes (Sept. 16) urges caution in accepting premature epidemiologic results. We agree: scientists are generally skeptics. As cautious pragmatists, our work has improved life expectancy and quality. Epidemiology demonstrated the hazards of smoking, the benefits of lowering blood pressure and cholesterol, that infant sleeping position reduces SIDS, sun exposure causes melanoma and folate supplementation helps prevent birth defects. Some were "bolts from the blue," and since no one knows what bolts remain undetected, we keep looking. Uncertainty along the way is the hallmark of science and the price of progress. Premature media pronouncements erode public trust. Good epidemiologists eschew these. Clinical trials, also in our toolbox, are useful but no panacea because we cannot randomly expose people to risks and because participants are self-selected and often unrepresentative. Granted, epidemiology is time consuming, expensive and requires public will. But don't lose the forest for the trees: epidemiology has hugely improved health.Roberta B. Ness, M.D.President-elect, American Society of EpidemiologyAllison Park, Pa.The problem with waiting for a randomized trial to make decisions about health is that the "gold standard" randomized trial actually has its share of tarnish. Conversely, although some observational studies are done poorly, well-designed nonrandomized research often withstands the test of time. The take-home message for readers should be not to expect certainty from any individual study, observational or randomized. Progress in science is iterative and incremental — in the long run, we get closer to "truth" as overall evidence accumulates on a given topic. Putting what we know into practice would prevent more disease than worshiping at the altar of randomized trials.John Concato, M.D.Professor of MedicineDirector, V.A. Clinical Epidemiology Research CenterYale UniversityNew HavenTaubes's excellent article about how women and their doctors were misled by the epidemiologic evidence to believe, wrongly, that hormone-replacement therapy would protect most women against heart disease missed one important aspect of the story — the influence of drug-company marketing. H.R.T. might never have become the most frequently prescribed drug in the United States on the basis of observational studies without a multimillion-dollar marketing campaign to persuade doctors and women of its benefits. We need not only to do the right type of studies but also to insist that drug-company marketing be truthful.Cynthia A. PearsonWashingtonDarkness InvisibleThat was an interesting piece by Daphne Merkin regarding Owen Wilson, depression and suicide (Sept. 16). Wilson's actions most likely had little to do with his ex-girl kissing another man. More likely it had to do with his system shutting down, the very system he needs churning on all speeds in order to deal with bouts of malaise and self-pity. You can't be cutting rails on the scene four nights a week and expect your serotonin and dopamine levels to, well, be level. That's math, baby!Rob AzevedoManchester, N.H.It seems that Owen Wilson is far from alone in succumbing to depression from inside a life that many would envy. People in comparably privileged positions the world over have fallen prey in just such a manner. This fall may not be in spite of their lives' advantages but rather because of them.Erica GangseiSan FranciscoI understand all too well Daphne Merkin's remark toward the end of her essay that "People who want to end it all have lost the necessary illusions that make life bearable." I have just lost my mother to congestive heart failure. Over the course of a four-year illness, I watched her slow descent into a state where she said, "I am no use to anyone anymore." She actually began to will herself to die. My mother-in-law, on the other hand, was buying designer clothes and redecorating till the absolute end, never giving up her illusion that those things mattered. I was in a fog for a month after my mother's death but gradually began to realize that if I did not pick up my illusions and move on, I would be dead as well.Louise HermanFort Lauderdale, Fla.Conservative StrongholdThe Sept. 16 Domains about Patrick J. Buchanan and his possessions showed a photo of the "right-wing pundit" holding what was described as a sterling silver pitchfork from his 1996 campaign. A pitchfork, which is used for pitching hay, has no more than three tines. The fork Buchanan is holding in the picture has five tines and is a manure fork. The implications are obvious — for what Buchanan was pitching then and what he continues to pitch now.Mariah JosephyWashingtonThe StripI was a teenager in the '70s, and I miss Megan Kelso's "Watergate Sue" comic strip already. It got not only the decade's angst over Nixon and the women's movement right but also that sorry feeling of having just missed out on something, namely the '60s. So kudos to Kelso! Rarely have the '70s been taken so seriously.Joyce HowePrinceton, N.J.The Missionary MogulWhether or not you agree with the philosophy and message that Chabad sends to the world, one thing is certain (Zev Chafets, Sept. 16). Lev Leviev is someone who not only could make a difference but actually did. For the better. The lesson that everyone can effect change for the better is the real message of our rebbe. And by example Lev Leviev is a deliverer of that message.Itchie GrossBrooklynLeviev's wealth was gained outside the United States by organizing a cartel in diamonds similar to De Beers's, involving the exploitation of the natural resources in African countries. No mention is made of the amount and proportion of taxes he might have paid to Angola, Russia, the United States and Israel. And now, he seeks to protect his wealth by investing in the United States. Leviev's gurus, the Chabadniks, match Leviev's missionary zeal and are tax-exempt.Lionel Alan MarksNew YorkThe EthicistWhen a project is estimated to take 10 days and I know that I can do it in 3, the best strategy would be to accept the job on the original terms (Sept. 16). There are no ethical problems with this, because Murphy's Law dictates that it might, in fact, actually take the full 10 days. If, in the end, it takes fewer days than expected, bill the client for the actual time. You will look like a hero. Your honesty will be firmly established, and you won't look like a crook when another project takes longer than projected.Yes, it's possible to be ethical and a good businessman simultaneously.Michael RossTeaneck, N.J.The Jane Fonda EffectStephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt identify coal-burning power plants as global-warming villains (Freakonomics, Sept. 16). But they fail to acknowledge that these plants could have a significantly lower environmental impact. Utility companies avoid implementing the best available pollution technology in coal-burning power plants to improve profitability. Rather than speculate on "the unintended consequences of Jane Fonda," we should examine the unintended consequences of a relentless pursuit of profit. It is a myopic focus on profitability that makes coal-burning power plants what they are. Nuclear power certainly holds the promise of clean energy; however, in examining the risk and uncertainty, we should take into account the behavior of the companies designing, building and operating them. No technology can transcend the behavior of the people behind it. The behavior of corporate America has a greater impact on the public's perception of the nuclear-power industry than Hollywood does.Mike DeRosaHoustonWhat a great idea for a film — an update on the nuclear industry as it is today. The nuclear sector exploits the public's concern with global warming and "greenwashes" nuclear power. Jane Fonda as the "villain"? Perfect. A nuclear plant strung with "fencing topped by razor wire" to show the public is safe from terrorist planes and bombs? Brilliant! And getting the movie financed? Will probably check with Exelon, the largest nuclear company in the United States, on that.Doreen McelvanyIndian Wells, Calif.Being Rachel ZoeI would like to say bravo to Olivier Theyskens for refusing to lend clothes to Rachel Zoe's clients (Lynn Hirschberg, Sept. 16). Clearly he gets it. It is one thing to influence the consumers who shop at Kohl's and Wal-Mart. It is quite another to be an arbiter of taste and style in the manner of Anna Wintour. I would assume that it is still the dream of all fashion designers to be featured in the pages of Vogue.James ScullyNew YorkVapid and narcissistic people who live to manipulate the masses just to make a buck and stroke their own egos already have a press outlet. It is called the tabloids. The Times Magazine would do well to heed Zoe's words about the danger of pandering to this sector.Tanis KmetykParisThe Music ManIn response to the inevitable letters (Sept. 16) about Lynn Hirschberg's article on Rick Rubin (Sept. 2), I say, yes, there was plenty of great music in the '60s and '70s. There is plenty of great music today too, but those of you who grew up back then may be raising children and running businesses and do not have the free time to keep up with new music.And don't forget that the Who, Led Zeppelin and Jimi Hendrix produced a total of zero No. 1 hits, while "Little Green Apples" beat out "Hey Jude" for song of the year at the 1968 Grammys.Thomas DemiNewtown, Pa.It is typical of the narcissism of members of the '60s generation to suggest that they are the only ones to have been defined by the music of their time. If they bother to ask their older sisters and brothers, they might discover that some of us still remember the thrill we felt when we heard "Mack the Knife" in a revival of "The Threepenny Opera." Or how we fell in love to the strains of "Deep Purple." And if they talk to their grandparents, they might discover that songs like "As Time Goes By" or "Someone to Watch Over Me" still prompt a sigh.So give it a rest, boomers. The world did not begin when you were born.Gail Marshall O'BrienWalnut Creek, Calif.
