THE 59-year-old pianist Mitsuko Uchida — born near Tokyo, trained in Vienna and long resident in London — is, in more ways than one, a musician's musician. Her performances and Philips recordings of Classical and Romantic standards — especially works by Mozart, Beethoven and Schubert — have consistently fed a reputation for elegant and profound musicianship.Those qualities have carried into later repertories as well, in performances of Schoenberg, Debussy, Bartok, Messiaen and beyond. And they will undoubtedly shine through Ms. Uchida's Carnegie Hall recital on Friday night, a typically meaty serving of Bach, Schubert and Schumann generously laced with works by the contemporary Hungarian Gyorgy Kurtag.But for this listener at least, the prime attraction comes right at the top: Schubert's C minor Sonata (D. 958), one of the three great "late" sonatas written in September 1828, some three months before his death at 31. For it is especially in the works of Schubert, even the more uneven early ones, that Ms. Uchida's musical depth comes through.On May 17 she will return to Carnegie — this time in Zankel Hall, with "friends," in the trite formulation of the day — in a program of chamber music by Liszt, Bartok and Messiaen. And that event, like her summer job as co-artistic director of the venerable Marlboro Music Festival in Vermont (since 2000, with Richard Goode), presents her in a different light, as a musician in service to musicians, specifically younger ones.Those friends are actually protégés of a sort, recipients of money from the Borletti-Buitoni Trust as part of a program largely shaped by Ms. Uchida. The concert ends her second tour  with recipients of trust awards.The Borletti-Buitoni awards and fellowships — the main thing Ms. Uchida wanted to discuss during a recent interview in New York, where she was otherwise engaged in meetings about Marlboro — germinated temporally, if not conceptually, from that festival, whose working method is to inject veteran musicians as mentoring colleagues into ensembles of younger musicians for intensive rehearsal periods and public performances. In the summer of 2001, as Ms. Uchida recalls it, she visited her friends Ilaria Borletti and Franco Buitoni in Perugia, Italy."I came right after Marlboro, so I was still full of it," she said. In Ms. Uchida's telling, Ms. Borletti, a founding director and major shareholder of the advertising journal Loot Limited, which was sold for almost $300 million in 2000, questioned her about Marlboro, and said she was toying with the notion of helping young concert performers, perhaps prodigies. Ms. Uchida said she quickly squelched the notion of dealing with prodigies because "a musician's life is not about what you can do at the age of 16 or 18, but about what you as a full-grown adult can get out of the music and pass on to the public.""The hardest time," she said she had told Ms. Borletti, "is when you are out of conservatories and places like that, and you have won a competition or two, and you are in the big world, and you're supposed to be making a lot of money, but you are not. There are moments in people's lives that it would be lovely to be helped."So the two women hatched a flexible system of grants for young musicians — "not too young," Ms. Uchida hastened to add, perhaps 22 to 35 — based on recommendations from established professionals. For the grants  and  administrative purposes, Ms. Borletti supplies some $750,000 a year of her own funds, not those of her husband's food empire, Ms. Uchida said. Awards range from $40,000 for an individual to $60,000 for a quartet, fellowships from $20,000 to $30,000.The money, Ms. Uchida added, comes with strings attached: "They don't get the money so that they can go out and frolic and buy a sports car. They have to use it for their musical development and toward their musical career, whatever that is. Some people use it for study money. Some have bought concert clothes or bows or support for instruments or commissioning a composer."Ms. Uchida's own career seems in retrospect to have developed smoothly, and it continues to thrive despite the additional demands of the recent service ventures with Marlboro and the trust. Inadvertent, she calls them, and so they might have been at the start, but they require a serious commitment of time and energy. She limits herself to 50 or so concerts a year, perhaps half of what some of her colleagues might undertake.Yet she has always worked in a selective and concentrated fashion. She made her name in the 1980s with cycles of the Mozart sonatas and concertos, performed in London and Tokyo and recorded.Mozart remains a major preoccupation. As artist in residence at the Cleveland Orchestra from 2002 to 2007, Ms. Uchida worked her way through the Mozart concertos as pianist and conductor. The success was such that she will return next season to repeat some of the concertos, though without reclaiming the title. Instead, she will be artist in residence at the Berlin Philharmonic.Despite this long experience with Mozart, she said, "I find it more and more fascinating to play his music."But the other topic  Ms. Uchida was especially eager to discuss was Beethoven, whose sonatas she has been recording to high acclaim. Here, too, far from dulling her enthusiasm, long familiarity with the material has only enhanced it."I am getting to truly understand the strength and grandeur and humanity of Beethoven," she said. "It's as if he could understand the universe, not just the earth. And it is the explosive power combined with extraordinary humanity that I find unattainable."Not to mention unplayable, by any but the best. "I found Beethoven always horrendously difficult," Ms. Uchida said.Asked in another context about turning 60, as she will in December, Ms. Uchida said the milestone held no terrors for her. What she does worry about, she said, is 70, fearing that by then she may no longer be able to manage the intractable "Hammerklavier" Sonata. All the more reason to revel in Beethoven in the present.But what Ms. Uchida's interviewer most wanted to explore was Schubert, particularly the final sonata, in B flat (D. 960). There are works so much grander than any individual performances of them that you spend much of your life looking for an adequate one, and this  seemed doomed to remain one of them. Even hopes stirred by a previously unreleased recording by Arthur Rubinstein in the end failed to do the trick.It was Ms. Uchida's recording of 1998 that finally proved worthy of the work, catching both its majesty and its mystery. It was at its most eloquent in the silences and in those odd, isolated soft grumblings in the bass."Actually, I prefer silence to noise," Ms. Uchida said. "And also I was born to play quietly rather than noisily. People complained about my playing when I was young, and now they complain less."But complain they do. "There are few who are capable of such sustained intensity and eloquence while playing so quietly and contemplatively, as revealed in her series of Schubert sonata recordings," The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians reports in its entry on her, "although to some she has made the composer retreat to a world that is too ethereal and idealized."Rightfully, Ms. Uchida greeted a reading of that passage with a guffaw.The last two movements of the B flat, which can often seem empty rattling after the profundities of the first two, took on stature and heft in her recording, perhaps in keeping with the subtext she finds in the work."In the first movement you are basically dying," she said, "and in the slow movement you are already dead. In the scherzo, the daughters of the Erlkönig are dancing around, and in the last movement the gate closes in front of your nose: Bang! You want to go to the other side, and you are not let in. And it goes on and on until the end, this very strange major ending, and fast. He goes running through the gate, happily. So it is actually about whatever it means to come to terms with death. Schubert knew that death was near, and suddenly he was open. And that's the beauty of that piece."Ms. Uchida finds a similar program in the C minor Sonata, to be heard on Friday."It has all the sufferings and fear and tragedy of life," she said. "And in spite of the unbelievable consolation of the slow movement, the last movement is a death rite. It is actually a much more terrifying piece than the 'Erlkönig.' You're riding the horse. It's really the noise of the hooves, and behind you the hounds of hell are yapping. You're riding and riding and riding, and you go straight into hell."Such tales may strike some as too literal-minded or fanciful, even a bit frightening. But if they are what it takes to fire Ms. Uchida's musical imagination, the results speak brilliantly for themselves.AHMIR Thompson was sitting in the back of a town car inching through Midtown when he received a vexing call from management, not entirely unlike the one that opens "Rising Down" (Def Jam), the new album by the Roots. One month before its release there were problems with a hidden track, and Mr. Thompson, better known as ?uestlove, the Roots' drummer and bandleader, made no attempt to hide his frustration, raising his voice in protest.As a tenaciously independent-minded hip-hop group, the Roots are accustomed to tension in the face of major-label pressure. But as ?uestlove observed moments after the call, the climate has felt especially urgent lately. "I'm not ashamed to say that this is probably the first we've ever been afraid: afraid of not being relevant, or afraid of not actually having a record deal after this album, or afraid of failure." Long pause. "But I think that's a good thing."Conflict and counterintuition have been motivating factors for the Roots ever since Mr. Thompson and Tariq Trotter, a k a the rapper Black Thought, joined forces to form the Square Roots in Philadelphia in the late 1980s, when they were in high school. They went against the grain from the start, using live instruments at a time when sampling was king. These days, in the era of the ring-tone hook, their ranks include a sousaphone player and a psychedelic rock guitarist.So it's easy to understand why the group might be afraid. Jay-Z, who helped bring the band to Def Jam, stepped down as the label's president late last year, and the industry climate is grim. Given that hip-hop sales were down about 30 percent last year, it can't be comforting to be a boutique band on a label that traffics in platinum stars like Kanye West, Rihanna and Young Jeezy. Def Jam did not return calls for comment; Billboard on Monday ran an article with the headline "Cult hip-hop band the Roots struggle at new label."The Roots see themselves as keepers of the flame, upholding the defiant but earnest spirit of hip-hop as it existed roughly 20 years ago. (In the words of Black Thought, on the new album: "I'll show you where my rare essence is at/The adolescence of rap/The real muscle in the message of that.") And while they identify with the hip-hop underground, they're hardly strangers to the mainstream, having backed the likes of Jay-Z and Nas. When ?uestlove received that intrusive phone call, he was en route to the airport; he had a gig in Las Vegas, spinning records at a joint birthday party for Quentin Tarantino and Fergie of the Black Eyed Peas."We've been on a major label for 15 years," said Richard Nichols, the executive producer of the new album and the Roots' manager since 1991. "There's a science to being a left-of-center group and maintaining the calculus between your critical appeal and your actual sales base."The Roots have cultivated a loyal following over the years, partly thanks to the collegiate jam-band circuit. Commercially the group has rarely had a smash: the closest thing was "Things Fall Apart" (MCA) in 1999, which peaked at No. 4 and sold more than 500,000 copies within its first few months, playing a substantial role in the millennial neo-soul boom. That album's biggest single, "You Got Me," earned a Grammy Award for the Roots and for Erykah Badu, who sang the chorus. (They are touring together this month and next.) The Roots' last album,  "Game Theory" (2006), was their Def Jam debut after a string of releases on Geffen and MCA. According to Nielsen SoundScan, "Game Theory" has sold slightly more than 200,000 copies since its release two years ago.As a group that thrives on touring, the Roots might seem somewhat insulated from sales concerns. But that's not entirely the case. "There's a winner-take-all kind of thing that kicks in with black culture, and definitely with hip-hop," Mr. Nichols said. "If you're doing contemporary white music, you can be a Deerhoof or Panda Bear or Grizzly Bear" — critically favored but noncommercial indie-rock acts — "and you're not really judged on your sales impact."However it is to be judged, "Rising Down" earns ?uestlove's depiction as a "meat-and-potatoes hip-hop record." Spiked with dire intensity and stocked with head-spinning rhymes by Black Thought and nearly a dozen guest rappers, including Common and Talib Kweli, it's the most potent Roots release since the one-two punch of "Things Fall Apart" and its predecessor, "Illadelph Halflife" (Geffen). And despite its punishing starkness, the album still reflects the crisp musicianship for which the Roots, and ?uestlove in particular, have long been admired.Characteristically for the Roots, "Rising Down" grapples with tough issues: its title is an allusion to "Rising Up and Rising Down," William T. Vollmann's seven-volume treatise on the nature of violence. "I think this Roots album has a very mirror-reflective image of what the state of America is right now," said Dice Raw, a Philadelphia rapper who has been loosely affiliated with the group for 15 years. "The war is an issue, but it's also the environment, it's also unemployment rates in the black community; it's a lot of things we're going through right now."One track, "Singing Man," adopts the chilling first-person voice of a figure like the shooter in the Virginia Tech massacre. (The Roots had been booked to play on that campus the week of the shooting.) Elsewhere there are sharp indictments of drug laws and government surveillance. On "Lost Desire" Black Thought tackles Philadelphia's murder rate, among the nation's highest, with harrowing  poetry:We in the city where they definitely lost itYou open your eyelids and get capped in the ribsYour funeral, they have your 12th-grade portraitPretty corpse and casket, pale shade orchidsOther rappers on "Rising Down" make strong impressions; an up-and-comer named Porn delivers one wickedly clever verse in the voice of a cough-syrup addict, and there are equally gripping turns by Mos Def and Saigon.   Dice Raw, who wrote most of the album's choruses, also contributes some of its pithiest lines (e.g., "I'm kind of like W .E. B. Du Bois/Meets Heavy D & the Boyz").But there's no mistaking the album's intention as a showcase for Black Thought, still an underdog after all these years. "For me it's important that we establish and contextualize Tariq's position in the hip-hop infrastructure," ?uestlove said. Despite all the guest rappers, or because of them, Black Thought comes across as nimble, resourceful and intensely lucid.He has two big virtuoso turns: "@15," an improvised  freestyle taped when he was 15, and "75 Bars (Black's Reconstruction)," featuring an intricately structured tirade that spills across (you guessed it) 75 bars without a moment's pause. The imperiled hidden track, which ended up getting dropped, was one more exhibit for the jury: a lengthy freestyle by Black Thought and Malik B., a former member of the Roots, from a 1994 radio appearance.Black Thought often raps with the hard articulation and thrust of a battle rapper, but in conversation he can be soft-spoken, his cadence reflective rather than aggressive. "We're very much amoebic," he said thoughtfully, leaning forward in an ergonomic chair, "in that we absorb what's going on in the outside world."He was in the engineer's booth of a recording studio near Times Square. The rest of the group was visible through the glass, warming up without him. They were rehearsing for their six-week tour with Ms. Badu while in the presence of multiple film crews and photographers. Flashbulbs strobed the room as ?uestlove led his band mates — on guitar, keyboards, bass and, yes, sousaphone — through a slinky yet ominous groove.Black Thought watched quietly from the booth for a while before sauntering out to deliver the day's first rousing chorus: "It's for all of my peoples who understand and truly recognize/Some won't get it, and for that, I won't apologize."That couplet might seem to summarize the position of the Roots with regard to the public. But the defiant stance doesn't mean the group is ignoring the commercial realities. "Maybe that was just a better way of saying that we're proud of who we are," ?uestlove said. And he voiced a common opinion among the members of the group: that the Roots somehow need the platform of a major label.Black Thought echoed that. "Without that foot in the door, without that major-label certification, you're on a different list," he said, "and it's harder to get things done, accomplish your agenda." But, he hastened to add, the challenge was also a creative spur.As it turned out, the hidden track wasn't the only thing that didn't make the cut on "Rising Down." Another was "Birthday Girl," a four-minute pop song featuring Patrick Stump of Fall Out Boy. Trotted out this spring as a first single, it provoked much puzzlement and derision. So after first tacking it to the tail end of the album, the Roots cut it loose. (It's available on iTunes and at myspace.com/theroots.)Mr. Nichols confirmed what many observers have surmised about "Birthday Girl": that Jay-Z heard "Rising Down" and requested a stronger single. "It was something we could use to shut the record company up," Mr. Nichols said of the song, "and it was so clearly outside the rest of the album that people would know we were going for a single." Without it, the album's best shot at a hit is "Rising Up," a neo-soul exhortation with the rapper Wale and a hook sung by the Def Jam artist Chrisette Michele. They played it Monday on "Late Show With David Letterman."The conversation that opens "Rising Down" also closes it, bracketing the album in argument. "There are some abrasive times," Black Thought acknowledged, "where you reach a certain point and there might be a screaming match."Did it all feel a bit Darwinian? "Yeah," he said. But he added: "I don't regret that things are the way they are. I'm appreciative of it because I think it shows in the final product. That's what sets it apart."NEW ORLEANS — Like the city it celebrates, the annual New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival is steeped in local memory.Jazzfest, which took place this year on seven days from April 25 through Sunday, revolves around familiar songs, distinctive rituals and the time-tested recipes of its justly celebrated food vendors. After 38 years there are also memories of Jazzfest itself. And no one onstage or elsewhere at the Fair Grounds, where Jazzfest took place, had forgotten about Hurricane Katrina in 2005. At this year's Jazzfest it was clear that New Orleans performances have added a new and possibly permanent custom: an acknowledgment of the scars left by the storm.When Stevie Wonder headlined Friday's lineup, he brought onstage the New Orleans R&B stalwart Irma Thomas to sing his song "Shelter in the Rain," which she recorded after losing her home and club to the flood. The New Orleans trumpeter Irvin Mayfield, leading the New Orleans Jazz Orchestra on Saturday, ended his set with a hymnlike elegy to his father, who drowned in the flooding after the storm. As Randy Newman performed his song about an earlier flood, "Louisiana 1927," he drew a heartfelt sing-along on the chorus: "Louisiana, they're trying to wash us away." Another New Orleans trumpeter, Kermit Ruffins, doing his version of the optimistic "O-o-h Child," rapped about growing up in the devastated Lower Ninth Ward, and urged, "Clean up this mess," while the Dirty Dozen Brass Band added a few words about Katrina to Marvin Gaye's "What's Going On."But musicians at Jazzfest didn't linger over grief. They created a New Orleans party, the kind that simultaneously defies sorrow, affirms continuity, heartens the locals and draws eager tourists. The festival, which scrambled to reassemble itself for 2006 and expanded last year, has now returned to its full pre-Katrina length: seven days over two extended weekends. (Last year the festival's second Saturday had Jazzfest's largest one-day attendance since 9/11, about 90,000.) The lineup this year included visitors like Widespread Panic, Santana, the Roots, Elvis Costello and Jimmy Buffett.Yet the most heralded event was the homecoming of the band that provided Jazzfest's finale from 1990 to 2005: the Neville Brothers, whose members have been at the center of New Orleans music since the 1950s. Displaced by Katrina, the Neville Brothers had not performed together in New Orleans since the storm. Returning to their regular slot at the festival was a symbol of restoration for a city that remains depopulated, particularly in the poor African-American neighborhoods that nurtured vital musical traditions.Individually the brothers were all over the festival. The keyboardist Art Neville, leading his own band, jovially revisited songs he had recorded half a century ago; Aaron Neville joined him onstage for a few, making his return to New Orleans a casual family affair. The percussionist Cyril Neville sat in with the Dixie Cups, whose hit "Iko Iko" is based on a Mardi Gras Indian song. Aaron Neville performed his own full set at the gospel tent, putting a second-line parade beat behind songs like "I Saw the Light" and singing comforting ballads in his gentle, aching voice. "I'm home," he said. "Feels good."The festival's aesthetics reflect ingrained New Orleans habits and tastes: for horn sections, for two-fisted piano, for wry voices, for dancing, for permeable boundaries between sacred and secular. Ms. Thomas, who reappeared Sunday afternoon in a tribute to the gospel singer Mahalia Jackson, said, "Yes I sing my rhythm and blues, but it was God that gave me my voice."The city's music, from jazz to R&B to funk, has transformed American culture but never conformed to it. It has always been a culture apart, sometimes intersecting the mainstream — the hometown rapper Lil Wayne, who did not perform here, is a major hip-hop star — but never defining it.New Orleans songs, old and new, draw on rhythms that reach back at least a century, with even older African, European and American Indian roots. Parades representing the city's traditions of brass bands, Mardi Gras Indians and Social Aid and Pleasure Clubs wound through the festival, sometimes ending up at the Heritage Stage, where brass bands and Indians performed full-length sets.On another stage the Cajun and zydeco music of nearby bayou country tootled and ratcheted through the day, with accordions and washboards. Performers at the blues tent spanned styles from the old rural blues of the Carolina Chocolate Drops to the roadhouse blues-rock guitar of Kenny Wayne Shepherd to the clear-voiced affirmations of Ruthie Foster to the deep soul of Bettye LaVette.In New Orleans music, traditions mingle and can turn up anywhere. At the gospel tent songs of praise sometimes rode funk grooves. The saxophonist Donald Harrison started his set playing complex jazz tunes and ended it with the band playing fierce funk behind Mardi Gras Indian chants. By then Mr. Harrison was in full feathered regalia. He is the chief of the Congo Nation tribe.At Jazzfest, New Orleans doesn't go mainstream; it helps visitors find Louisiana connections. Smart ones, like Mr. Wonder, draw on the sensational local talent. Widespread Panic brought the feathered pandemonium of the Wild Magnolias Mardi Gras Indians onstage. Mr. Buffett looked toward Cajun country, latching on to the world-class slide guitarist Sonny Landreth and performing "U.S.S. Zydecoldsmobile."The Roots, the hip-hop group from Philadelphia, were ready for Jazzfest style on their own. They were backed not by a disc jockey but by a funky live band that — like a New Orleans brass band — gets its bass lines from a sousaphone. The Bad Plus, a jazz piano trio that can grow abstruse, met its audience with compositions full of earthy vamps.Yet the heart of Jazzfest is its local musicians: the startling solo voices that leap out of groups like John Lee and the Heralds of Christ, rambunctious brass bands like Rebirth, thoughtful jazz composers like Terence Blanchard, the two-fisted piano phenomenon Henry Butler, the socially minded funk bandleader Ivan Neville, the backbeat-loving bluesman Snooks Eaglin and the many Mardi Gras Indians who hand-sew their costumes and take to the streets out of pure devotion to tradition.From the stages at Jazzfest performers called out, "Only in New Orleans!" After Katrina that could be changing; some displaced residents have started to transplant their cultural memories to the places where they've resettled. But at Jazzfest, and in New Orleans, all those memories and traditions are still dancing on home ground.NEW ORLEANS — Men whooped and hollered, rasped and preached. Women sassed, strutted, hurled accusations and wailed away tears. Guitars twanged and cackled, horns laughed, and drums pounded backbeats and chattered with funk. Tuesday was the first of two nights of the seventh annual Ponderosa Stomp, a party on its way to becoming an institution. The Ponderosa Stomp is an oldies marathon as dreamed up by record collectors: the kind of music fans who prize soul veterans' rare B-sides and limited-edition garage-rock singles, the wilder the better.The lineup features rockabilly and rhythm and blues, and the audience at Tuesday's concert at the House of Blues in the French Quarter, with nine hours of music on three stages, was dotted with women in vintage promwear and men sporting greased-up hair and flashy Western shirts.The Stomp is officially dedicated to "unsung heroes" of rock and R&B: people like Wardell Quezergue, the arranger behind New Orleans R&B classics from the brass-band mainstay "It Ain't My Fault" to Jean Knight's "Mr. Big Stuff," and the Green Fuz, credited as a five-man band that released one single, "Green Fuz," a song that was revived by the Cramps. "Green Fuz" was recorded in 1969 in a diner under renovation, and reverberation from bare walls gave it a memorably murky sound. Band members didn't like the recording and shot BB guns at part of their lone pressing of 500 copies. The Green Fuz was scheduled to be reunited, after 40 years, at Wednesday's half of the Stomp.Where a typical oldies show runs through familiar hits, the Ponderosa Stomp digs deeper. Tuesday's set lists included a handful of well-known songs. But many more were known only to aficionados of figures like Barbara Lynn, a Texas R&B singer who had a 1962 hit with "You'll Lose a Good Thing" and is also a stinging left-handed blues guitarist, or Travis Wammack, a frenetic, chicken-plucking, string-bending Memphis guitarist who has been recording since the 1950s.Mary Weiss, who was the lead singer of the Shangri-Las, did get around to "Leader of the Pack," but not before belting some of the group's nonhits like the B-side "The Train From Kansas City." Mac Rebennack, known since the late 1960s as Dr. John, did a set of songs from his days as a pianist working in New Orleans studios as the '50s ended, among them "Bad Neighborhood" and "Storm Warning," that he has rarely performed since. The drummer from the Meters, Ziggy Modeliste, was in the band, led by Mr. Quezergue.The Ponderosa Stomp is the brainchild of Dr. Ike, a New Orleans anesthesiologist whose real name is Ira Padnos. "People think there's a vision in this," he said on Tuesday afternoon while juggling guest-list requests and last-minute amplifier complications. "When we started, all I wanted to do was put a mike on the floor, throw a show and go home."But his curatorial zeal has, perhaps inevitably, led to an ever-expanding mission. "People just go, 'Who the hell are these guys?,' " said Mr. Padnos. So the Stomp created an extensive Web site about its musicians and has moved into oral history. "These guys have seen it and heard it and done it," he said.There is now a monthly Ponderosa Stomp series at the Ogden Museum of Southern Art here, where musicians talk about their music between sets. The Stomp has also presented shows at McCarren Park Pool in Brooklyn and at the South By Southwest music festival in Austin, Tex.This year's Stomp added a free daytime conference, held at the Louisiana State Museum in the historic Cabildo Building on Jackson Square. Musicians, backstage figures and music historians shared their memories; audience members asked questions, like which microphones were used at certain sessions. Joe Bihari, a founder of Modern Records who crossed the United States recording blues, R&B and country music, drew a wave of applause when he said, "Recording today, which I do not like — it's too clean." He added, "We made distortion."Lazy Lester, the 74-year-old Louisiana bluesman and harmonica player who recorded "Pondarosa Stomp" in the '50s, spoke about turning a darkroom into a studio echo chamber by sealing it, stuccoing the walls and painting it with 14 coats of Dutch Boy paint. "I'm glad I'm living, because that Dutch Boy paint was full of lead," he said with a chuckle.On Tuesday night the Stomp mingled high-octane rockabilly, elegantly dynamic Southern soul, intricate New Orleans R&B and some kindred untamed music, like James Blood Ulmer's electric power-trio blues spiked with polytonal jazz. William Bell and Betty Harris sang about love, cheating and heartache in galvanizing Memphis soul. The Collins Kids, the siblings Lorrie and Larry, had Lorrie singing about her "Rock Boppin' Baby" answered by Larry's zooming, precise rockabilly and proto-surf-guitar lines on his doublenecked guitar. The Tail Dragger, a Chicago bluesman in a suit and cowboy hat, glared balefully as he sang about woman trouble with a growl worthy of Howlin' Wolf. Sonny Burgess, whose startling guitar solos leap between country twang and jazzy chords, and the rockabilly singer Hayden Thompson, cut loose on their old Sun Records repertory.The wild men and women at the Ponderosa Stomp are older and mostly grayer now. A few strained at their old material. But by rediscovering songs and stoking a battle of the bands, the Stomp stirs up some anarchy. Roy Head twirled his microphone, sang advice to lovers with some explicit gestures, and merged rockabilly presence with soul shouts suggesting James Brown. Backing him up was Stanley Dural, known as Buckwheat, who leads a top Louisiana zydeco band, on organ. At one point Mr. Head joyfully embraced Mr. Dural, then turned to the crowd. "Buckwheat, you sure got soft lips," he said.Al Johnson, known in New Orleans for his hit "Carnival Time," played one set alone at an electric piano, bringing out the ache in a Fats Domino song, "My Girl Josephine" that plaintively asked, "Do you remember me?" At the Ponderosa Stomp the clear answer was yes.The Chicago Symphony Orchestra snagged the prize.In a classical music world of diminishing grandeur, the orchestra has hired one of the last lions of podium glamour, Riccardo Muti, as its music director and in so doing is lending a sheen to the city's cultural profile.At the same time Mr. Muti's embrace of a cold city on Lake Michigan — which he diplomatically likens to the Mediterranean waters off his native Italy — dampened spirits at the New York Philharmonic, which failed to lure him at least once and, by some accounts, including his own, possibly twice.His decision to assume the helm in Chicago is a remarkable turnaround. As recently as September, Mr. Muti dismissed the idea of taking over the responsibilities of an American music directorship, and all the nonmusical duties the job entails. But on Monday, in his first interview since signing the contract, he said he was fully committed to the position, including supervising auditions, helping raise money and engaging in community outreach."From my years in Philadelphia I know exactly what I'm expected to do as music director of an American orchestra," said Mr. Muti, 66, who was music director of the Philadelphia Orchestra from 1980 to 1992. The job, he said, was not just to make good music in the concert hall "but to serve the community." He cited his work performing in trouble spots around the world, including the Balkans, Lebanon and Armenia, and giving concerts in places like a prison in Italy.Mr. Muti called the Chicago Symphony "a perfect machine," with the versatility to play huge works like Prokofiev's Symphony No. 3 and Scriabin's "Poem of Ecstasy" or to display the refined delicacy needed for small-scale Schubert.He remained steadfastly unattached after resigning as music director of the Teatro Alla Scala in Milan in 2005 in an operatic kerfuffle. Orchestra musicians and other workers at the theater had turned against him in an internal political wrangle."I thought it was time for me to be absolutely free, like the birds in the air," he said. "Birds go around and they enjoy their happiness, their freedom. But sometimes it can happen they find a tree, and they like to stop on a tree, and they didn't know about the tree before. It doesn't mean one tree is better than another tree. It just happens at the right moment in life."The Chicago Symphony has been without a music director since 2006, when Daniel Barenboim ended a 15-year run. In Mr. Muti it has a charismatic Italian who can draw the best from musicians, a dashing figure with flowing raven locks who also imposes a rigorous approach to the score.The Chicago players learned about the appointment on Monday morning, when they were called to a conference room at Symphony Center and told the news. Mr. Muti will take over in the 2010-11 season. His contract will run for five years, and he is expected to conduct a minimum of 10 weeks a season and lead tours."The applause was giant," said Eugene Izotov, the principal oboist, who had played under Mr. Muti during a guest appearances last fall. "We really connected in so many ways, musically, artistically, personally. His presence will add so much not just to us but to the city of Chicago. We need excitement in this business and substance, and he has both."Members of the storied orchestra clearly felt they had found a leader to match its stature."There are a few people on this planet who are really just giants of the conducting world, and he's one of them," said Rob Kassinger, a double bassist. "It's just such a privilege to be able to look forward and say, 'I'm going to get to work with this guy.' "Mr. Muti turned down the music director's job at the New York Philharmonic in 2000. Last year he agreed to take on a position equivalent to principal guest conductor, in which he was expected to spend six to eight weeks a season with the orchestra and lead it on tours, beginning in 2009 (although he now says that he did not agree to a specific number of weeks).Speaking from his villa in Anif, Austria, near Salzburg, Mr. Muti said he would continue his association with the New York Philharmonic but suggested that his new schedule would reduce his time there. Zarin Mehta, the Philharmonic's president, said Mr. Muti would not be back as a guest conductor once he took over the Chicago job. That, he said, made the Chicago announcement a "disappointment." The Philharmonic musicians are known to be especially fond of playing for him.Given the regular visits by major American orchestras to Carnegie Hall, the Philharmonic does not invite other music directors as guests, Mr. Mehta said, because "it confuses the image of an orchestra and music director." While he said he was thrilled for the Chicago orchestra and for Mr. Muti, he added that the Philharmonic had decided a while ago to move in a "different direction, to go to a younger person who is going to spend more time with us."In July the Philharmonic appointed the American Alan Gilbert, 41, as its music director, to start in 2009. The Los Angeles Philharmonic similarly cast its lot with a young, non-European conductor, announcing that Gustavo Dudamel, 26, of Venezuela would be its next music director.The Chicago Symphony began looking for a new music director nearly four years ago, after Mr. Barenboim announced he was leaving. Chicago's orchestra management found an interim solution in two other high-profile conductors, naming Bernard Haitink principal conductor and Pierre Boulez conductor emeritus. The two men will continue in their positions at least until Mr. Muti's arrival.Mr. Muti suddenly became a potential candidate after his abrupt resignation from La Scala, and Chicago moved into action, members of the search committee and the administration said. Weeks after his resignation Mr. Muti was in New York to conduct the Philharmonic. A group of Chicago players, staff members and trustees flew in to meet with him, said Michael Henoch, the  assistant principal oboist. "We just fell in love with him as a person," he said.Deborah R. Card, the Chicago Symphony's president, said she also met with Mr. Muti in early 2005 to discuss a guest appearance, as part of an effort to bring back conductors who had not led the orchestra for many years. Mr. Henoch, a member of the search committee, said the strategy was clearly aimed at seducing him into the music directorship. Mr. Muti's last performances with Chicago had been in 1975."We both knew that we weren't going to talk about anything until he worked with the orchestra," Ms. Card said. She  continued to court him with visits in various cities. The prospects seemed to dim in September 2006, when he canceled guest dates in Chicago because of illness, and when the New York Philharmonic announced his extended association.The turning point came when Ms. Card arranged a month of dates with the orchestra at the beginning of this season, including a two-week tour to Europe and concerts in Italy.They hit it off:  love was in the air. Desire ran high. Even despite the success, some players still did not believe Mr. Muti would come to an American orchestra, Mr. Henoch said."This was a high-risk strategy," he said. "I have to tell you, there was no Plan B." In the end the tour seems to have been  crucial to winning Mr. Muti over. "It really perked him up," Mr. Henoch said.In the interview Mr. Muti stressed that he was not picking Chicago over New York and said that he wanted to underline how much affection he had for the New Yorkers.He likened the hiring to the experience of a confirmed bachelor who finds love and marriage at one fell swoop, and noted that at the moment he is rehearsing a Paisiello opera with the Luigi Cherubini Youth Orchestra, which he founded, called "Il Matrimonio Inaspettato," or "The Unexpected Marriage."During the guest stint early this season, Mr. Muti said he was struck by the warmth of the musicians, staff members and patrons of the Chicago Symphony."I have found a situation," he added, "how can I say, that has made more sweet my dry heart."When people find that their dancegoing is getting to be a habit, they often ask, "How can I find out more about this?" The answers are endless and usually too complicated to be of much practical help. But now at last we can say, "If you like Balanchine, you must read Nancy Goldner's 'Balanchine Variations.' " Slim enough to fit into a jacket pocket, it surveys 22 of Balanchine's most popular ballets; it's good-humored, enthusiastic and undictatorial; it gives you numerous things to look out for in any performance; and it abounds with insights.Ms. Goldner once danced for Mr. B.: she was a child Polichinelle in his original 1954 production of "The Nutcracker." Watching Balanchine has been part of her life since then — in the 1970s she wrote valuable books on New York City Ballet's 1972 Stravinsky Festival and its new "Coppélia" production — and the memories that stud this book include some of Tanaquil LeClercq, whose dance career ended in 1956.But Ms. Goldner has also followed the wider dance scene (her references here range from the 19th-century Bournonville to Bob Fosse). And — nothing more valuable for a Balanchine specialist — she has the best ear for music and dance musicality of any dance critic writing today.Better yet, she has a life: she describes these ballets in the context of children and parents hunting fireflies in Central Park, of Shakespeare and Tolstoy, and of the way women know for wedding photos how to bend one leg and turn it in slightly so as to show its line to best advantage.Best of all, Ms. Goldner is a true writer. In the finale of "Western Symphony" she pinpoints a moment when suddenly, as the entire cast is jigging in unison in six parallel lines,  the outer lines "jig into the center and back again as  the music changes chords."  Then she adds, "The stage looks like shifting panels, and the effect is seismic for reasons I still can't figure out." She speculates on those reasons — the horizontal surges meet a surge in the music — but already her language (shifting panels, seismic) has grabbed readers' hearts the moment after her audio-visual precision (changes of pattern and of chords) has grabbed their minds.But Ms. Goldner keeps it light: after her speculation, she adds: "Maybe. But what's certain is that these shifting lines topped off with pirouettes en masse sends  you home smiling."This way of taking you into her own deliberations is a Goldner specialty. About the heroine of "Night Shadow" or "La Sonnambula," she writes: "Although she skims the ground, the Sleepwalker doesn't waft about aimlessly. There is a specificity to her travels, yet we don't know if she is moving toward or away from something, someone. At one point she rotates in sharp right angles, as if tracing the four walls of a room. The inner anxiety we sense in her — Is she a captive? Am I getting too imaginative? Maybe. The point is that the tension between the Sleepwalker's outer impassivity and inner agitation is thrilling."I don't think Ms. Goldner is getting too imaginative, but it's perfect that she presents this reading as a possibility rather than an assurance. And meanwhile, she has made the dance drama wonderfully real.Ms. Goldner's Mr. B. is not infallible. She wonders why in 1979 he made large-scale revisions that reduced his 1928 ballet "Apollo" while leaving other details unfixed that she finds inelegant. She describes the features of "Prodigal Son" (1929) that show relative immaturity on its choreographer's part. Most of "La Sonnambula," other than the Sleepwalker pas de deux, is "middling."Seven of her 22 ballets are to music by Stravinsky, and even though Balanchine's 1972 Stravinsky Festival was a crucial moment in her time as a dancegoer and critic (she wrote a valuable book about it), she discusses how in most of Balanchine's later (post-1970) responses to Stravinsky he "seemed to care less about the inherent viability and beauty of traditional pas in favor of finding kinetic moves."She then goes on to say, "I'd rather see steps than moves, an embôité instead of a prance, an arabesque instead of a leg kick. That's why I love ballet in the first place — to see all those codified pas; and why I love Balanchine best of all — because he recombines them and presents them in different contexts with unsurpassed nuance."Here and elsewhere Ms. Goldner's manner is so unassuming that you're free to disagree with her, but she has already deepened the whole discussion so that you're in her debt. Her individual surveys are all based on lectures she has given for the Balanchine Foundation about ballets that are being danced around America.I like the fact that her 22 include relatively minor masterpieces like "Western Symphony" (1954) and "Valse Fantaise" (1967), because her affection for these is contagious. I only wish she'd made them 25, with "Ballet Imperial" (1941), "Symphony in C" (1947) and "Divertimento No. 15" (1956), supreme examples of Balanchinean classicism that are danced from California to Russia."Balanchine Variations" is in every sense a vade-mecum ("Go with me"): a pocket-size reference book that is also a companion, a guide, a friend. I open it at random and come across this revelatory and irresistible account of the second pas de deux in "Stravinsky Violin Concerto": "a dialogue that captures the vicissitudes, the emotional volatility of an intimate sexual relationship."She continues, "In one of the duet's loveliest moments, they mark the pulse of the music with soft balances as their intertwined arms trace thoughts in the air. It seems like a new chapter in their life together. But in a blink, the mood changes. So it goes between lovers."For writing like this, I attach  to Ms. Goldner's book the motto of the old Everyman series: "Go with me and be my guide."ComedyELMSFORD Westchester Broadway Theater Gallagher. Monday at 8 p.m. $73. Westchester Broadway Theater, 75 Clearbrook Road. (914) 592-2222; www.broadwaytheatre.com.KINGSTON Ulster Performing Arts Center Ron White. Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m. $47.75. Ulster Performing Arts Center, 601 Broadway. (845) 339-6088; www.upac.org.FilmNEW ROCHELLE New Rochelle Public Library "Sonatine," written and directed by Takeshi Kitano. In Japanese with subtitles. May 15 at 7 p.m. Suggested donation, $2. New Rochelle Public Library, 1 Library Plaza. (914) 632-7878; www.nrpl.org.PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center "Blessed Is the Match," documentary directed by Roberta Grossman, question-and-answer session with Viktor Polgar. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. $6.50 to $13. "Burning the Future: Coal in America," documentary, question-and-answer session with the film's director, David Novack. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. $6 to $10. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville Road. (914) 747-5555; www.burnsfilmcenter.org.PURCHASE Performing Arts Center "Talk Cinema," screenings of foreign and independent films before release. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. $20. Performing Arts Center, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; www.artscenter.org.For ChildrenIRVINGTON Irvington Town Hall The Clocktower Players Jr. Teens present "Aladdin Jr.," musical. May 4 at 2 p.m. $12 and $18. "Willy Wonka Jr.," musical based on the book by Roald Dahl. Friday and May 10. $12 and $20. Irvington Town Hall, 85 Main Street. (914) 591-6602; www.irvingtontheater.com.KINGSTON Ulster Performing Arts Center "The Musical Adventures of Flat Stanley." May 12 at 10 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. $6 and $10. Ulster Performing Arts Center, 601 Broadway. (845) 339-6088; www.upac.org.PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center "The Black Stallion," based on the book by Walter Farley. May 4 through 12. $6 to $10. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville Road. (914) 747-5555; www.burnsfilmcenter.org.SCARSDALE J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester "Children's Letters to God," musical based on the book by Stuart Hample and Eric Marshall, presented by the Play Group Theater. May 4 and 11. $15. J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester, 999 Wilmot Road. (914) 472-3300; www.jccmidwestchester.org.SUFFERN Cultural Arts Theater "The Tale of Jemima Puddle-Duck and the Story of a Fierce Bad Rabbit," presented by the Hudson Vagabond Puppets. May 18 at 2:30 p.m. $10 and $12. Cultural Arts Theater, 145 College Road. (845) 732-8186; www.hvpuppets.org.Museums and GalleriesBEACON Fovea Exhibitions Beacon Gallery "Vanishing Giants: Elephants of Asia," photographs by Palani Mohan. Through May 4. Fridays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Fovea Exhibitions Beacon Gallery, 143 Main Street. (845) 765-2199; www.foveaeditions.org.BEACON RiverWinds Gallery "Edges of Light," photographs by Robert Rodriguez Jr. Through Monday. Saturday, Sunday and Monday, noon to 6 p.m. RiverWinds Gallery, 172 Main Street. (845) 838-2880; www.riverwindsgallery.com.LARCHMONT Sheldrake Environmental Center "From Earth and Fire: Sculptures From Wood and Bronze," group exhibition. Through May 31. Mondays through Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sheldrake Environmental Center, 685 Weaver Street. (914) 834-1443; www.sheldrakecenter.org.NEW ROCHELLE Third Rail Studio "Unadorned: An Exhibition of Portraiture," group show. Through May 24. Thursdays and Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m., or by appointment. Third Rail Studio, 49 Plain Avenue. (914) 712-9831; www.3rdrailstudio.com.NORTH SALEM Hammond Museum and Japanese Stroll Garden "Palm Treasures," ceramics by Pak-hing Kan. Through June 7. $5, adults; $4, seniors; members and children under 12, free. Wednesdays through Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. Hammond Museum and Japanese Stroll Garden, 28 Deveau Road. (914) 669-5033; www.hammondmuseum.org.PEEKSKILL Flat Iron Gallery "Objects In and Out!" sculptured paintings by Leslie Lew. Through May 31. Hours: Fridays, 3 to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Flat Iron Gallery, 105 South Division Street. (914) 734-1894; www.flatiron.qpg.com.PELHAM Pelham Art Center "Glory of Landscape Then and Now," paintings and prints by 21 artists from the 19th century to the present. Friday through June 21. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Pelham Art Center, 155 Fifth Avenue. (914) 738-2525; www.pelhamartcenter.org.PLEASANTVILLE Mount Pleasant Public Library Japanese Calligraphy and Ikebana. Friday through June 5. Hours: Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Wednesdays, to 6 p.m.; Fridays through Sundays, to 5 p.m. Mount Pleasant Public Library, 350 Bedford Road. (914) 769-0548; www.mountpleasantlibrary.org.PURCHASE Neuberger Museum of Art "Reframing American Art: Selections From the Roy R. Neuberger Collection." Through December 2009. "Outdoor Sculpture From the Permanent Collection," works of modern and contemporary art on display throughout the Purchase College campus. Through December 2009. "African Art and Culture: Selections From the Collection." Through December 2009. "Komar and Melamid: Super Objects-Super Comfort for Super People," photographs and text from the series by Vitaly Komar and Alexander Melamid. Through May 4. "Future Tense: Reshaping the Landscape," a critical look at the environment. May 11 through July 20. $3 to $5. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Neuberger Museum of Art, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6100; www.neuberger.org.RYE Rye Free Reading Room "Eclectic Interpretations," murals by Ann Ferencz. Through Friday. Hours: Mondays and Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Rye Free Reading Room, 1061 Boston Post Road. (914) 967-0480; www.ryelibrary.org.TARRYTOWN Eyebuzz Fine Art Gallery "American Urban," paintings by Bruce Habowski. Through June 14. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m., or by appointment. Eyebuzz Fine Art Gallery, 15 Kaldenberg Place. (914) 631-1080; www.eyebuzzgallery.com.WEST NYACK Rockland Center for the Arts "Merit Badge 2." Various artists. Through May 14. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Rockland Center for the Arts, 27 South Greenbush Road. (845) 358-0877; www.rocklandartcenter.org.WHITE PLAINS Arts Exchange "Feel the Earth Move," group exhibition. Through Wednesday. "Local Growing Conditions," group exhibition. May 17 through July 22. Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Arts Exchange, 31 Mamaroneck Avenue. (914) 428-4220, ext. 223; www.westarts.comWOODSTOCK Gallerie B. M. G. "Bokeh," photographs by Jeri Eisenberg. Through May 19. Hours: Mondays and Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., and by appointment. Gallerie B. M. G., 12 Tannery Brook Road. (845) 679-0027; www.galeriebmg.com.YONKERS Hudson River Museum "Red Grooms: In the Studio." Through May 25. $3 and $5. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, noon to 8 p.m. Hudson River Museum, 511 Warburton Avenue. (914) 963-4550; www.hrm.org.Music and DanceANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON Fisher Center for the Performing Arts at Bard College Bard College Chamber Singers and Symphonic Chorus conducted by James Bagwell. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $5. Conservatory Orchestra, conducted by Leon Botstein, performs works by Mendelssohn, Haydn, Beethoven and Tchaikovsky. May 14 at 7 p.m. Free. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts at Bard College, Sosnoff Theater. (845) 758-7900; fishercenter.bard-.edu.BRONXVILLE West Center Congregational Church The Furuya Trio performs works by Mendelssohn and Schubert. May 4 at 2 p.m. Free. West Center Congregational Church, 101 Pondfield Road West. (914) 337-3829; www.westcentercc-ucc.org.CHAPPAQUA Horace Greeley High School Auditorium "Beethoven Cubed," presented by the Chappaqua Orchestra with Nadejda Vlaeva, piano. May 18 at 3 p.m. $15 and $20. Horace Greeley High School Auditorium, 70 Roaring Brook Road. (914) 921-4642; www.chappaquaorchestra.org.COLD SPRING Chapel of Our Lady Restoration Kees Kooper, violin, and Aaron Wunsch, piano, perform works by Dvorák, Franck and Handel. May 18 at 4 p.m. Free. Chapel of Our Lady Restoration, 45 Market Street. (845) 265-5537.ELMSFORD Westchester Broadway Theater The Duprees perform favorite love songs. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $73. Westchester Broadway Theater, 75 Clearbrook Road. (914) 592-2222; www.broadwaytheatre.com.NEW ROCHELLE Presbyterian Church of New Rochelle "The Sun Never Sets," classical concert presented by the Sound Shore Chorale of New Rochelle. May 18 at 4 p.m. $12 and $15. Presbyterian Church of New Rochelle, 50 Pintard Avenue. (914) 636-1583.PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts "Heroes, Monsters and Madmen," with Craig Schulman. May 4 at 2 p.m. $26.50. Led Zeppelin Experience, a tribute band. Friday at 8 p.m. $30 to $60. Phoebe Snow, singer-songwriter. May 10 at 8 p.m. $30 to $40. Caramoor's Sonidos Latinos Family Concert. May 18 at 3 p.m. $5. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; www.paramountcenter.org.POUGHKEEPSIE Bardavon Opera House Dickey Betts and Great Southern, rock. May 4 at 7 p.m. $39.50; members, $34.50. Hudson Valley Philharmonic performs works by Wolf-Ferrari, Mozart and Mahler. May 10 at 8 p.m. $22 to $44. Bardavon Opera House, 35 Market Street. (845) 473-2072; www.bardavon.org.PURCHASE  Performing Arts Center Purchase Dance Corps spring concert, choreographed by Kevin Wynn. Through May 4. $18 and $20. Westchester Philharmonic performs works by Hovhaness and Mahler. Through May 4. $22 to $67. (914) 682-3707; www.westchesterphil.org. Awadagin Pratt, piano. May 4 at 3 p.m. $35. Performing Arts Center, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; www.artscenter.org.TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall Westchester Symphonic Winds conducted by Curt Ebersole. May 10 at 8 p.m. $13 and $18. Dave Brubeck Quartet, jazz. May 17 at 8 p.m. $45 to $85. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. (877) 840-0457; www.tarrytownmusichall.org.WHITE PLAINS Arts Exchange Annette St. John Trio with Houston Person, saxophone, perform the music of Billie Holiday, Sarah Vaughan, Ella Fitzgerald and Dakota Staton. May 10 at 7 p.m. $20 and $25. New Voices: Edie Carey, Milton, Montgomery Delaney and Greg Greenaway. May 15 at 7:30 p.m. $10 and $15. Arts Exchange, 31 Mamaroneck Avenue. (914) 428-4220, ext. 223; www.westarts.com.YONKERS Riverfront Library Nandalala Dance Drama, classical Indian. May 10 at 1:30 p.m. Free. Riverfront Library, 1 Larkin Center. (914) 337-1500; www.ypl.org.OutdoorsWHITE PLAINS Turnure Park Cherry Blossom Festival, featuring traditional Japanese arts, classical music, dance and children's activities. May 4 at noon. Free. Turnure Park, one block north of Broadway between Lake and Main Street. (914) 774-3187.Spoken WordDOBBS FERRY Dobbs Ferry Historical Society "Native American History and Adaptations in the Hudson Valley Region" with Dr. Eugene Boesch. Friday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Dobbs Ferry Historical Society, The Mead House, 12 Elm Street. (914) 674-1007.PLEASANTVILLE Mount Pleasant Public Library Tom Sleigh, poems and a question-and-answer session. May 18 at 2 p.m. Free. Mount Pleasant Public Library, 350 Bedford Road. (914) 769-0548; www.mountpleasantlibrary.org.TheaterCROTON FALLS Schoolhouse Theater "Lost in Yonkers," comedy by Neil Simon. Thursday through June 1. $25 and $29. Schoolhouse Theater, 3 Owens Road. (914) 277-8477; www.schoolhousetheater.org.IRVINGTON Irvington Town Hall The Clocktower Players Teens present "Smokey Joe's Café," musical. May 4 at 7 p.m. $15 and $20. Irvington Town Hall, 85 Main Street. (914) 591-6602; www.irvingtontheater.com.MAMARONECK Emelin Theater "Pure Heaven: A Party With Kay Thompson," musical by Ruth Williamson. Through May 18. $32 and $35. Emelin Theater, 153 Library Lane. (914) 698-0098; www.-emelin.org.POUND RIDGE The Pound Ridge Theater Company, Conant Hall "Dinner With Friends," drama by Donald Margulies. Through May 17. $18 and $22. Pound Ridge Theater Company, Conant Hall, Routes 172 and 137. (914) 764-1902; www.prtc01.org.WHITE PLAINS White Plains Performing Arts Center "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying," music and lyrics by Frank Loesser. Through May 11. $50 and $60. White Plains Performing Arts Center, 11 City Place. (914) 328-1600; www.wppac.com.YONKERS Yonkers Public Library, Grinton I. Will branch "The Art of Murder," mystery by Joe DiPietro, presented by M and M productions. May 15 at 7 p.m. Free. Yonkers Public Library, Grinton I. Will branch, 1500 Central Park Avenue. (914) 337-1500; www.ypl.org.NEW ORLEANS — At every New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival from 1990 to 2005, the closing set belonged to the Neville Brothers, the band that is led by Art, Aaron, Charles and Cyril Neville and that often includes a member of the family's next generation. Hurricane Katrina broke that streak, but on Sunday the Nevilles plan to play their first hometown concert after the storm.Since 1954, when Art Neville's high school band, the Hawketts, had a hit with "Mardi Gras Mambo," members of the Neville family have been prime movers in New Orleans R&B, funk, pop and jazz. Art Neville later led the Meters, the band that defined New Orleans funk. Aaron Neville, the city's definitive ballad singer, has had R&B and pop hits — including Grammy-winning duets with Linda Ronstadt and Trisha Yearwood — since the 1960s.All four brothers backed up the Wild Tchoupitoulas, a Mardi Gras Indian tribe led by Big Chief Jolly, their uncle, on a 1976 album that carried Indian chants worldwide. "There was no rehearsal," Charles Neville recalled in a phone interview. "We went to the studio, the music just happened, and I realized this was the way it supposed to be."Chief Jolly urged the brothers to keep working together, and they inaugurated the Neville Brothers in 1977. Their repertory, on albums like "Fiyo on the Bayou" and "Yellow Moon," spans New Orleans lore, social commentary and dance tunes, often in the same song."We carry New Orleans everywhere we go," Aaron Neville said. "We're from New Orleans. We walk and breathe New Orleans. That's what we're about."When Katrina hit the city, the Nevilles were scattered like other New Orleanians. In the months after the storm, they appeared at virtually every major benefit for hurricane relief. They said they had hoped to return to the festival, better known as Jazzfest, last year, but Aaron Neville's wife of 48 years, Joel, was undergoing cancer treatment. The first time he returned to New Orleans was for her funeral in January 2007."It's going to be emotional this week," he said. "It's the first Jazzfest that she won't be in the audience."For this music-loving city, the Neville Brothers' return to Jazzfest is a rightful restoration of the way things were. "We've been running into relocated New Orleans people, all over the country, and everybody's asking, 'When are you guys going back to Jazzfest?' " said Charles Neville, the band's saxophonist."It leaves a hole in our soul when the Nevilles aren't here," said Quint Davis, the festival's producer and director. "When we look at Jazzfest as a metaphor for New Orleans — which we do — as Jazzfest gets whole, it's a reflection of New Orleans." Mr. Davis added that while the city's hospitality business has returned to its old capabilities for events like Jazzfest, Mardi Gras and the Super Bowl, its infrastructure — from utilities to public schools to criminal justice — has by no means been fully restored.For the Neville Brothers, the Jazzfest gig represents an acceptance of a changed New Orleans, and a chance to remind people that they were among the luckier ones. "We had nobody who lost their life," Art Neville said of his family. "It could have been a lot more tragic than it was."The percussionist and songwriter Cyril Neville, whose home in the Gentilly district was destroyed and is still under reconstruction while he lives in Austin, Tex., said: "Don't just come here to see and hear the music and enjoy the festivities, but also realize there's still a lot of misery. Some people's lives are still devastated by the storm."The number of households in New Orleans is 52 percent to 72 percent of what it was before the flood; reports differ widely. The most severely damaged neighborhoods remain depopulated. Housing is in short supply, and rents have risen more than 20 percent. "It looks like there's going to be a new, gentrified New Orleans," Charles Neville said.Seventy percent of the population still displaced is black, whose street-level traditions — Mardi Gras Indian chants, brass-band parades, jazz — have been a wellspring of New Orleans music."One of the things that makes New Orleans different from music in other parts of America is that musicians don't get into it with the idea of getting rich and famous and having hits and getting Grammy Awards," Charles Neville said. "They keep their day jobs and make music for love and spiritual fulfillment."Art Neville said, "We grew up here, and all of the culture was right there for us." He added that he thought the neighborhood would never be the same. "Some of the poor people ain't going to come back," he said. "They have moved away, they have jobs already, and they're not gonna give up jobs to come back. Restaurants and tourism are up, but I just wanna see regular home people come back."Some transplanted New Orleanians have carried the music with them. While in Austin, Cyril Neville has been collaborating with Texas musicians to make music called chumbo: chili plus gumbo.Art Neville has returned to New Orleans and lives down the block from his old house while it is being rebuilt. Aaron Neville is settling in nearby Covington, La. The saxophonist Charles Neville had long been living in Massachusetts, on land from his wife's parents, and he remains there.The Jazzfest set, the brothers said, will span their 30-year career, from politically minded songs to Mardi Gras chants with local Indians. "The lyrics of some songs relate to some of the negative things that are happening," said Charles Neville. "But the spirit of the music is positive. So there's that balance. The yin and the yang are in it."ComedySTAMFORD Palace Theater, Stamford Center for the Arts Ron White. Friday at 8 and 10:30 p.m. $30 to $60. Palace Theater, Stamford Center for the Arts, 61 Atlantic Street. (203) 325-4466; www.stamfordcenterforthe-arts.org.TORRINGTON Warner Theater Lisa Lampanelli. May 16 at 8 p.m. $34. Warner Theater, 68 Main Street. (860) 489-7180; www.warnertheatre.org.For ChildrenBRIDGEPORT Downtown Cabaret Theater "Aladdin," musical. Through May 18. $14. Downtown Cabaret Theater, 263 Golden Hill Street. (203) 576-1636; www.dtcab.com.FAIRFIELD Quick Center for the Arts, Fairfield University "Max and Ruby," musical presented by TheatreworksUSA. May 4 at 1 and 3 p.m. Quick Center for the Arts, Fairfield University, 1073 North Benson Road. (203) 254-4010; www.quickcenter.com.NEW LONDON Lyman Allyn Art Museum "Honks, Beeps, Whistles: Getting Around New London," an exhibition featuring paintings, antique toys, wagons and tricycles. Through Aug. 17. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Lyman Allyn Art Museum, 625 Williams Street. (860) 443-2545; www.lymanallyn.org.RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Playhouse "Sleeping Beauty," play based on the fairy tale. May 10 at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. $15. Ridgefield Playhouse, 80 East Ridge Road. (203) 438-5795; www.ridgefieldplayhouse.com.STAMFORD Palace Theater, Stamford Center for the Arts "The Musical Adventures of Flat Stanley." May 16 at 7 p.m. $8. Palace Theater, Stamford Center for the Arts, 61 Atlantic Street. (203) 325-4466; www.stamfordcenterforthearts.org.WESTPORT Westport Country Playhouse "Harry the Dirty Dog," musical presented by ArtsPower. May 4 at 1 and 4 p.m. $15. Westport Country Playhouse, 25 Powers Court. (203) 227-4177; www.westportplayhouse.org.Museums and GalleriesBRIDGEPORT Black Rock Art Center "Voodoo, Villages, Festivals: Ghana, Benin and Togo," photographs by Barbara Paul. Through June 7. Mondays through Fridays, 1 to 5 p.m., or by appointment. Black Rock Art Center, 2838 Fairfield Avenue. (203) 367-7917; www.internationalperformingarts.com.FAIRFIELD Fairfield Public Library "Microcosms," paintings by Nash Hyon and Roger Mudre. Through May 18. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Fridays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Fairfield Public Library, Bruce S. Kershner Gallery, 1080 Old Post Road. (203) 256-3155; www.fairfieldpubliclibrary.org.GREENWICH Bruce Museum "Phenomenal Weather," multimedia works by various artists. Through Nov. 30. "Twentieth-Century American Prints From the Bruce Museum Collection." Through July 6. $7; seniors and students, $6; children 5 and under, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Bruce Museum, 1 Museum Drive. (203) 869-0376; www.brucemuseum.org.GREENWICH Cavalier Galleries "The Four Seasons: A Show of Light and Atmosphere," paintings by John Terelak. May 15 through 30. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 10:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m., Sundays noon to 5 p.m., or by appointment. Cavalier Galleries, 405 Greenwich Avenue. (203) 869-3664; www.cavaliergalleries.com.GREENWICH Flinn Gallery "Architecture and Landscape in the Abstract," multimedia works by Marty Kremer and Cate Leach. Through June 12. Hours: Mondays through Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Flinn Gallery, 101 West Putnam Avenue. (203) 622-7947; www.flinngallery.com.GUILFORD Guilford Art Center "Documenting 'The Other:' Photographs of China, Myanmar and India by Larry Snider." Friday through June 19. Mondays through Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m. Guilford Art Center, 411 Church Street. (203) 453-5947; www.handcraftcen-ter.org.HARTFORD Connecticut Historical Society "Small Things Considered," exploring the big impact of small objects. Through Nov. 29. $6; seniors, students and children, $3. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Connecticut Historical Society, 1 Elizabeth Street. (860) 236-5621; www.chs.org.HARTFORD Hartford 21/XL Center "Titanic: The Artifact Exhibition." Through July 30. $7 to $22. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Hartford 21/XL Center, 1 Civic Center Plaza. (860) 249-6333; www.hartfordciviccenter.com.HARTFORD Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art "Impressionists by the Sea," paintings documenting 19th-century artists' fascination with the Normandy coast. Through May 11. "Making a Splash: American Beach Fashions, 1850-1920," multimedia exhibition. Through July 13. $5 to $10; members and children 12 and under, free. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; first Thursdays of the month, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, 600 Main Street. (860) 278-2670; www.wadsworthathen-eum.org.NEW BRITAIN New Britain Museum of American Art "Inner Terrain," featuring mixed-media images, collagraphs, monotypes and watercolors by Kate Cheney Chappell. Through May 25. "All Things Bright and Beautiful: California Impressionist Paintings From the Irvine Museum." Through June 29. "Cathie Bleck: 13 Years of Artistic Expression," multimedia works. Through May 4. $9; seniors, $8; students, $7; children under 12 and members, free. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. New Britain Museum of American Art, 56 Lexington Street. (860) 229-0257; www.nbmaa.org.NEW CANAAN Silvermine Guild Arts Center "59th Annual Art of the Northeast," regional juried exhibition. Tuesday through June 6. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m.; Mondays, by appointment. Silvermine Guild Arts Center, 1037 Silvermine Road. (203) 966-9700, extension 14; www.silvermineart.org.NEW HAVEN Exposure Gallery of Photography "Vanishing Landscape," black and whites by David Ottenstein. Through May 10. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. Exposure Gallery of Photography, 1 Whitney Avenue. (203) 494-9905; www.exposureexhibitions.com.NEW HAVEN Peabody Museum of Natural History "Travels in the Great Tree of Life," exploring relationships that link living organisms. Through February 2009. "Las Artes de Mexico," examining more than 3,500 years of culture and tradition. Through July 19. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Peabody Museum of Natural History, 170-210 Whitney Avenue. (203) 432-5050; www.yale.edu/peabody.NEW HAVEN Yale Center for British Art "A New World: England's First View of America." Through June 1. "Figuring Women: The Female in Modern British Art." Through June 8. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Yale Center for British Art, 1080 Chapel Street. (203) 432-2800; www.yale.edu/ycba.NEW HAVEN Yale University Art Gallery "Colorful Impressions: The Printmaking Revolution in 18th-Century France." Through May 4. "Making It New: The Art and Style of Sara and Gerald Murphy." Through May 4. "Master Drawings From the Yale University Art Gallery," works from the late 15th- to the mid-19th centuries. Through June 8. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Yale University Art Gallery, (203) 432-0600; www.artgallery.yale.edu.NEW LONDON Lyman Allyn Art Museum "Tradition et Innovation: French Art From the Lyman Allyn Art Museum." Through Dec. 31. $7 and $8; children under 12, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Lyman Allyn Art Museum, 625 Williams Street. (860) 443-2545; www.lymanallyn.org.OLD LYME Florence Griswold Museum "Impressionist Giverny: American Painters in France, 1885-1915." Through July 27. $4 to $8; under 6, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Florence Griswold Museum, 96 Lyme Street. (860) 434-5542; www.flogris.org.RIDGEFIELD Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum "Charlotte Schulz: An Insufficiency in Our Screens," two- and three-dimensional charcoal drawings. Through May 26. "Life and Death: A Visual Taxonomy," works by James Prosek. Through June 8. "Painting the Glass House: Artists Revisit Modern Architecture." Through July 27. "Halsey Burgund: Round," audio exhibition. Through July 27. "Gary Panter: Daydream Trap." Through Aug. 31. "Ester Partegas: The Invisible Main Street Sculpture Project." Through Aug. 10. $4 and $7; members, kindergarten through 12th-grade teachers and children under 18, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, 258 Main Street. (203) 438-4519; www.aldrichart.org.WEST CORNWALL Northern Exposure Photographic Gallery at the Wish House "Visions," various artists. Through May 18. Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 5:30 p.m. Northern Exposure Photographic Gallery at the Wish House, 413 Main Street. (860) 927-3319; www.north-ernexposureportraits.com.WESTPORT Westport Arts Center "Color in 3D: Found, Applied and Readymade," group sculpture exhibition. Through June 8. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Westport Arts Center, 51 Riverside Avenue. (203) 222-7070; www.westport-artscenter.org.Music and DanceBRIDGEPORT Downtown Cabaret Theater 8 Track: The Sounds of the '70s. Through May 25. $35. Downtown Cabaret Theater, 263 Golden Hill Street. (203) 576-1636; www.dtcab.com.FAIRFIELD Fairfield Theater Company FleytMuzik: Klezmer concert, dance party and nosh, with Adrianne Greenbaum, flute. May 18 at 2 and 7:30 p.m. $27; members, $22. Fairfield Theater Company, 70 Sanford Street. (203) 259-1036; www.fairfieldtheatre.org.FAIRFIELD Quick Center for the Arts, Fairfield University Quartetto Gelato, classic-fusion. May 10 at 8 p.m. $30 to $40. Quick Center for the Arts, Fairfield University, 1073 North Benson Road. (203) 254-4010; www.quickcenter.com.GREENWICH Greenwich Library Ulisses Rocha, Brazilian guitar. May 18 at 4:30 p.m. $20. Greenwich Library, 101 West Putnam Avenue. (203) 622-7900; www.greenwichlibrary.org.HARTFORD Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts Lord of the Dance. May 4 at 2 and 7 p.m. $25 to $56. "Forever Tango," created and directed by Luis Bravo. Friday at 7:30 p.m. $48. Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue. (860) 987-5900; www.bushnell.org.NEW HARTFORD The Licia and Mason Beekley Community Library Jack Williams, singer-songwriter. May 11 at 7 p.m. $15 and $20. The Licia and Mason Beekley Community Library, 10 Central Avenue. (860) 379-7235; www.new-hartfordlibrary.org.NEW HAVEN Long Wharf Theater Jazz on the Wharf: Steve Davis, trombone. May 16 at 9 p.m. $17; members, $15. Long Wharf Theater, 222 Sargent Drive. (203) 787-4282; www.longwharf.org.NEW HAVEN Shubert Theater The Steve Chapin Band performs a tribute to Harry Chapin. Friday at 7:30 p.m. $18 and $20. Shubert Theater, 247 College Street. (203) 562-5666; www.shubert.com.RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Playhouse Gin Blossoms, pop-rock. Friday at 8 p.m. $55 to $100. Ridgefield Playhouse, 80 East Ridge Road. (203) 438-5795; www.ridgefieldplayhouse.com.STAMFORD Palace Theater, Stamford Center for the Arts Kumar Sanu, vocal. May 4 at 7 p.m. $25 to $80. Palace Theater, Stamford Center for the Arts, 61 Atlantic Street. (203) 325-4466; www.stamfordcenterforthearts.org.STAMFORD Rich Forum, Stamford Center for the Arts Glenn Miller Orchestra, jazz. May 11 at 7 p.m. $31 to $39. Ballet Etudes Company. May 18 at 4 p.m. $35. Rich Forum, Stamford Center for the Arts, 307 Atlantic Street. (203) 325-4466; www.stamfordcenterforthearts.org.TORRINGTON Warner Theater "Solid Gold '60s," with Herman's Hermits and the Belmonts. May 17 at 8 p.m. $35.50 to $56.50. Warner Theater, 68 Main Street. (860) 489-7180; www.warnertheatre.org.WALLINGFORD Chevrolet Theater Honda Civic Tour: Panic at the Disco, with Motion City Soundtrack, the Hush Sound and Phantom Planet. May 10 at 7 p.m. $35. Chevrolet Theater, 95 South Turnpike Road. (203) 265-1501; www.livenation.com.WATERBURY Palace Theater of Connecticut Michael Amante, vocal. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. $45 and $55. The Waterbury Symphony Orchestra performs a tribute to the composer Leroy Anderson. May 10 at 8:15 p.m. $10 to $75. Natalie Cole, R&B. May 13 at 7:30 p.m. $40 to $70. Palace Theater of Connecticut, 100 East Main Street. (203) 755-4700; www.palacetheater-ct.org.Spoken WordCOS COB Bush-Holley Historic Site "Darwinian Object Lessons: The Cultural Formation of the African Savage in American Culture," with Teresa DeFlitch. May 12 at 10 a.m. $15. Bush-Holley Historic Site, 39 Strickland Road. (203) 869-6899; www.hstg.org.RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Playhouse "The Male Intellect: An Oxymoron?" with Robert Dubac. May 4 at 8 p.m. $55. Ridgefield Playhouse, 80 East Ridge Road. (203) 438-5795; www.ridgefieldplayhouse.com.TheaterFAIRFIELD Fairfield Theater Company "Momoirs: The Umbilical Cord Stops Here," comedy written and performed by various actresses. Friday and May 10. $12; members, $7. Fairfield Theater Company, 70 Sanford Street. (203) 259-1036; www.fairfieldtheatre.org.HARTFORD Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts "Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl," drama based on the memoir by Harriet Jacobs. Monday at 7 p.m. $25. "Jesus Christ Superstar," rock opera by Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber. Tuesday through May 11. $22 to $63. Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue. (860) 987-5900; www.bushnell.org.HARTFORD Hartford Stage "The Scene," comedy by Theresa Rebeck. Through May 4. $28 to $64. "The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Anymore," by Tennessee Williams, starring Olympia Dukakis. May 15 through June 15. $10 to $64. Hartford Stage, 50 Church Street. (860) 527-5151; www.hartfordstage.org.HARTFORD TheaterWorks Hartford "Blackbird," drama by David Harrower. Through May 11. $10 to $47. TheaterWorks Hartford, 233 Pearl Street. (860) 527-7838; www.theaterworkshartford.org.IVORYTON Ivoryton Playhouse "The Glass Menagerie," drama by Tennessee Williams. Wednesday through May 25. $15 to $35. Ivoryton Playhouse, 103 Main Street. (860) 767-7318; www.ivorytonplayhouse.com.NEW BRITAIN Hole in the Wall Theater "The Goat or, Who is Sylvia?" drama by Edward Albee. Friday through June 7. Suggested donation, $20. Hole in the Wall Theater, 116 Main Street. (860) 229-3049; www.hitw.org.NEW HAVEN Long Wharf Theater "Carousel," musical by Rodgers and Hammerstein. Wednesday through June 1. $29 to $70. Long Wharf Theater, 222 Sargent Drive. (203) 787-4282; www.longwharf.org.NEW HAVEN Shubert Theater "Hairspray," musical by Marc Shaiman and Scott Wittman. May 15 through 18.$38 to $68. Shubert Theater, 247 College Street. (203) 562-5666; www.shubert.com.NEW HAVEN Yale Repertory Theater "Boleros for the Disenchanted," drama by José Rivera. Through May 17. $20 to $58. Yale Repertory Theater, 1120 Chapel Street. (203) 432-1234; www.yale.edu/yalerep.NEW LONDON Garde Arts Center Mike Super, magician. May 10 at 7 p.m. $20. Garde Arts Center, 325 State Street. (860) 444-7373; www.gardearts.org.NEW MILFORD TheaterWorks "Moonlight and Magnolias," comedy by Ron Hutchinson. Through May 10. $20. TheaterWorks, 5 Brookside Avenue. (860) 350-6863; theatreworks.us.TORRINGTON Warner Theater "Crazy for You," musical by George and Ira Gershwin. Through May 10. $18.50 to $24.50. Warner Theater, 68 Main Street. (860) 489-7180; www.warnertheatre.org.WATERBURY Palace Theater of Connecticut "Hair," musical, presented by the Performing Arts Collaborative. Friday at 8 p.m. $20. Palace Theater of Connecticut, 100 East Main Street. (203) 755-4700; www.palacetheaterct.org.WATERBURY Seven Angels Theater "Souvenir," comedy by Stephen Temperly. Through May 11. $29 to $48. Seven Angels Theater, Plank Road in Hamilton Park Pavilion. (203) 757-4676; sevenangelstheatre.org.WESTPORT Westport Country Playhouse "The Pavilion," drama by Craig Wright. May 13 through 31. $30 to $55. Westport Country Playhouse, 25 Powers Court. (203) 227-4177; www.westportplayhouse.org.Rupert Murdoch does not plan to raise his bid for Newsday in an attempt to match a higher offer from Cablevision, while Mortimer B. Zuckerman has not signaled whether he will increase his offer, people involved in the talks said on Friday.But people close to several of the parties in the talks said that Cablevision's $650 million bid includes the newspaper's real estate, and therefore the difference between its offer and the $580 million offers from Mr. Zuckerman and Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation is smaller than it first appears.Samuel Zell, the chairman and chief executive of the Tribune Company, the owner of Newsday, made his fortune in real estate and wants to hold onto the property under Newsday even as he gives up the newspaper."It's not an apples-to-apples comparison between the offers," said a person close to one of Cablevision's rival suitors. "That real estate might be worth $30 million."This person, like others involved in the negotiations, was granted anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss details of the bidding publicly. Tribune and Mr. Zuckerman, the real estate developer, declined to comment. Calls to News Corporation were not returned.It remains to be seen whether Mr. Murdoch, the News Corporation chairman, is serious about sticking to his stated price or would move if he saw Newsday slipping away from him. Mr. Zuckerman could still try to get a step ahead with a somewhat higher offer.Each of the three offers would create a joint venture to take ownership of Newsday, with Tribune holding a 5 percent stake, as part of a structure that would allow Tribune to avoid paying tax on the sale.That means Tribune would have a long-term interest, albeit a small one, in the newspaper's being run profitably  — something that Mr. Murdoch and Mr. Zuckerman have experience doing, but Cablevision does not.News Corporation owns The New York Post, while Mr. Zuckerman owns its rival tabloid, The Daily News. Both foresee major savings from merging operations with Newsday, including printing. Cablevision, with no newspaper properties, would not have the same opportunities for improving Newsday's finances.But buying Newsday would give Cablevision a tight hold on the advertising market on Long Island, Newsday's home. The company is the primary provider of cable television on Long Island. It owns the only Long Island television news station, News12, which is a cable channel, and it is also a big supplier of Internet and phone service.  Cablevision also owns cable systems outside Long Island, Madison Square Garden, Radio City Music Hall, the New York Knicks and the New York Rangers.Several industry analysts have said that all things being equal, Mr. Zell would prefer to make a deal with Mr. Murdoch, noting the friendly acquaintance between them and the deal that they struck recently to make a Tribune television station an affiliate of News Corporation's Fox network.Mr. Zuckerman's offer matches News Corporation's but has the advantage of coming with no potential regulatory problems. (Mr. Murdoch owns televisions stations in New York; Mr. Zuckerman does not.)Tribune, which owns The Chicago Tribune, The Los Angeles Times and a string of other newspapers, is struggling under the weight of $8 billion in debt that it took on last year in going private.Tribune needs more than $900 million a year to make payments on its long-term debt, but its cash flow last year was not much higher, just under $1 billion, and Mr. Zell has said that so far, this year's numbers  are troubling.In addition, Tribune is scheduled to make a balloon payment on short-term debt in December and another in mid-2009, which total about $1.4 billion.
