THE name on the marquee was Air Supply, and the line went halfway down the block. It was Saturday night at the B. B. King Blues Club & Grill on 42nd Street in Manhattan, and I had no ticket. But I walked right in.Snob that I am, I was not there for Air Supply. (Although, in truth, "Lost in Love" gets heavy play on my iPod.) I was there for the band at Lucille's, a restaurant within B. B. King's that often has notable blues acts and doesn't charge for entry. The attraction this night was neither bluesy nor very notable: a pedestrian local covers group. But as I bobbed my head to Bad Company and Black Crowes songs, I couldn't have been more pleased. I was warm, I was being entertained and I hadn't paid a dime.New York is a paradise of live music, but much of it can be discouragingly expensive. Tickets for the major concert halls typically start at $40 or $50 and rocket upward from there. Even in clubs it's not unusual to pay $25 or $30 to see a hot touring band.But in a kind of alternate universe for the modestly compensated (and the merely stingy) the city also has a vast network of bars and restaurants that waive a cover charge. At most you may be asked to buy a drink, but as I found in seven nights of budget-conscious concert hopping, waitresses and tip jars can be avoided, if you can bear the guilt. In 27 sets at 22 rooms, I paid a total of $30 for drinks and donations, and only $18 of that was compulsory — a few times I was just thirsty.If you're lucky, you might even get that drink free. After B. B. King's I went to Hill Country, a barbecue restaurant on West 26th Street where the Doc Marshalls, a first-rate Cajun and country band, were celebrating a new album with three rug-cutting sets. At the end of the first, at 11, two waitresses climbed on the bar and asked for attention. It was easily gotten. For a moment I think every man there thought the same two words: "Coyote Ugly." Instead we were treated to free shots of bourbon, with a request from one of our cowboy-hatted hostesses."At the count of three," she hollered, "I want to hear the biggest Texas 'yee-haw' you can muster!"No yee-haws or any other hoots or yawps were held back a few nights earlier at a show by the Defibulators at the Rodeo Bar on Third Avenue, which styles itself a honky-tonk oasis in Manhattan, with Lone Star beer, peanuts by the basket and free country and rockabilly every night. The Defibulators, from Brooklyn, are quintessential Rodeo Bar. Like a hoedown band from a Warner Brothers cartoon, they played raucous and slightly surreal "whackabilly," as they describe it, and featured two washboard percussionists, one in crimson long johns, the other in a Viking helmet.When there is no charge, you sometimes get what you pay for. An "Old Time Jam" at Freddy's Backroom in Brooklyn was too sparsely attended to live up to the advertised hootenanny. And while I have enjoyed previous editions of Cross Pollination, a series in which two acts perform separately and then collaborate for a third set, an unrehearsed-sounding version of  R.E.M.'s "Fall on Me" by Bess Rogers and That Fleeting World fell flat.But Cross Pollination, Tuesdays at Pianos on the Lower East Side, is an impressive feat of indie gumption. Run by two young musician-promoters, Jay Goettelmann and Wes Verhoeve, it has been going for three and a half years, with some big names passing through — big for the indie universe anyway — like Nicole Atkins, Cloud Cult and Jaymay. (I saw installment No. 169.) Its success owes much to the central financial axiom of gratis entertainment: If you don't charge, they will come and might even spend more than they would have otherwise."It just makes more economic sense," said Mr. Goettelmann, a St. Louis transplant. "It's better for the audience. The artists frequently make more money in the tip jar than they would after the venue has taken a cut, and we've taken a cut. We frequently make more with our percentage off the bar than we would after we take our cut off a ticket. And the bar is making more off the bar."Establishments that don't charge at the door are dotted throughout the city, but the Lower East Side is the capital. Within two blocks of Pianos — which usually has paid shows in its main space but free events upstairs — there are 10 or so such bars. Expand the radius a bit and you have dozens of choices. The Living Room is the Bottom Line of this sphere, packing in four or five singer-songwriters a night. With a similar average of sweaty rock bands, Arlene's Grocery is the no-cover CBGB.Wandering from gig to gig I was repeatedly reminded of the embarrassment of musical riches in New York available literally for nothing. At the 55 Bar, a Prohibition-era sliver in Greenwich Village, Julie Hardy, a breezy young jazz singer, announced that she had written lyrics to a Wayne Shorter song. Then she added, "Wayne Shorter approved my lyrics," and began "Song of the Iris."One frigid night on Avenue C I was too early for a set by Eli Degibri at the cozy Louis 649, so I ducked into Banjo Jim's across the street. There Terry Waldo, a pianist and historian who studied with Eubie Blake, was presiding over a leisurely ragtime musicale.That night my wallet never left my pocket. But it's not always so easy, and no cover doesn't necessarily mean free. Many clubs, like the Living Room and the nearby Rockwood Music Hall, have a one-drink minimum per set, and even at places that never charge a cover, like the Lakeside Lounge on Avenue B, musicians often pass the hat. They all deserve to make a living of course.A few lessons learned: First, the more crowded the club, the easier it is to hide from the wait staff. This was evident at an early set at the Zinc Bar on West Houston Street, where I was the third person present, after the bartender and the performer: no way to avoid buying a drink there. Second, sitting at a table is the international sign of willingness to order. And third, waitresses will not forget if you promise to get something later.For any veteran concertgoer tired of the familiar club circuit, seeking out free  shows can be like rediscovering live music in New York. One of the best performances I saw was an appearance at the East Village record store Other Music by Tinariwen, an African guitar band that put the tightly packed crowd into a wonderful state somewhere between trance and dance. (A video of that show will be posted on Dec. 28 on the store's Web site, othermusic.com.) Sound Fix, an indie record store in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, also has a live series — free of course — in a spacious bar in the back.The strangest location of all, though, I almost missed. I spotted a listing for Joel Frahm, a saxophonist whose records I like but whom I'd never seen, at an unfamiliar place, "The Salon at Arthur's IP," on East 13th Street. Clutching the address, I wandered up and down 13th Street and was about to give up when I noticed a jazz trio playing in the window of Arthur's Invitations and Prints, a stationery shop.Turns out it wasn't Mr. Frahm, who has been playing there once a month for the last year or so but couldn't make it that night. Filling in was John Ellis, another saxophonist, and as I wandered the sales floor, pretending to browse through the Christmas cards and wrapping papers, I enjoyed 20 minutes of surprisingly intimate music.Speaking by telephone this week, as he prepared for his regular Tuesday-night show at the Bar Next Door on Macdougal Street in Greenwich Village (cover charge: $8), Mr. Frahm — who has recorded with Brad Mehldau and played at places far more illustrious than Arthur's  — explained the benefits of the engagement. Each musician gets $100; it's a relaxed atmosphere; and it's early enough that he can easily fit in another show the same night, he said."And if you're a jazz musician in New York City," he added, "a gig's a gig."But for a fan, it's just a little sweeter when it's free.1. Lucille's at B. B. King Blues Club & Grill237 West 42nd Street,Manhattan; (212) 997-4144; bbkingblues.com.THE DEAL Never a cover.THE VIBE Corporate holiday party.2. Hill Country30 West 26th Street,Manhattan; (212) 255-4544; hillcountryny.com.THE DEAL Rarely a cover.THE VIBE Subdued honky-tonk.3. Rodeo Bar375 Third Avenue,at 27th Street, Manhattan;(212) 683-6500; rodeobar.com.THE DEAL Never a cover.THE VIBE Trying hard for Texas roadhouse.4. 55 Bar55 Christopher Street,Greenwich Village;(212) 929-9883; 55bar.com.THE DEAL No cover for some shows.THE VIBE Vintage Village.5. Other Music15 East Fourth Street,East Village; (212) 477-8150; othermusic.com.THE DEAL Record store with occasional free performances.THE VIBE Cramped but worth it.6. Lakeside Lounge162 Avenue B, at 10th Street, East Village; (212) 529-8463; lakesidelounge.com.THE DEAL Rarely a cover.THE VIBE Bohemian — when that meant poor.7. Louis 649649 East Ninth Street,East Village; (212) 673-1190; louis649.com.THE DEAL Never a cover.THE VIBE Neighborhoody and hassle-free.8. Banjo Jim's700 East Ninth Street,East Village; (212) 777-0869; banjojims.com.THE DEAL No cover for some shows.THE VIBE Beery and casual.9. Rockwood Music Hall196 Allen Street, Lower East Side; (212) 477-4155; rockwoodmusichall.com.THE DEAL Rarely a cover;one-drink minimum per set.THE VIBE Crowded but convivial.10. Arlene's Grocery95 Stanton Street, Lower East Side; (212) 358-1633; arlenesgrocery.net.THE DEAL Rarely a cover.THE VIBE Dive fabulous.11. Living Room154 Ludlow Street, Lower East Side; (212) 533-7235; livingroomny.com.THE DEAL Occasional cover; one-drink minimum per set.THE VIBE Coffeehouse meets assembly line.12. Pianos158 Ludlow Street, Lower East Side; (212) 505-3733; pianosnyc.com.THE DEAL No cover for some shows.THE VIBE Coffeehouse meets keg party.13. Sound Fix110 Bedford Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn; (718) 388-8090; soundfixrecords.com.THE DEAL Record store with free shows in adjoining bar.THE VIBE Hipster fashion week.14. Pete's Candy Store 709 Lorimer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn; (718) 302-3770; petescandystore.com.THE DEAL Never a cover.THE VIBE Old-timey and intimate.More than 250 years after Bach's "Art of Fugue" was posthumously printed, the work still poses questions that have only conditional answers. Was this unfinished collection of 20 increasingly complex fugues and canons meant to sum up a life's work? Probably, given Bach's failing eyesight during the 1740s.Was it actually meant to be played? If so, by whom? Those are tougher questions. Bach's score does not specify instrumentation. Some scholars view it as unquestionably a keyboard piece; others claim the opposite. The work has been successfully recorded by keyboardists (on both period and modern instruments), viol consorts, chamber orchestras and saxophone quartets.On Tuesday night the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center opened its second Baroque Festival — an event devised to provide context for its traditional December traversals of Bach's "Brandenburg" Concertos — with a performance of "The Art of Fugue" at the New York Society for Ethical Culture. The Orion String Quartet and the wind quintet Windscape, nine of the finest musicians on the society's roster, used an arrangement made in the early 1960s by the flutist Samuel Baron for the New York Woodwind Quintet, of which he was a member, and the Fine Arts Quartet.This concert was as much a tribute to Mr. Baron's ingenuity  as to Bach's original vision, whatever it might have been. Mr. Baron's combinations of modern strings and winds, however "inauthentic," served the work with unfailing musicality.True, the first 11 fugues felt more illustrative than inspirational. The music unfurled at a stately pace and, for the most part, a comfortable mezzo forte volume. Mr. Baron's instrumental combinations illuminated Bach's supreme logic as melodic strands mingled at varying angles.After an intermission the players applied more expressiveness and dynamic gumption in the canons, and the performance grew more involving. An almost Romantic sense of tension accumulated as lines shifted restlessly from one instrumental grouping to another. Approaching the end, the music took on an almost orchestral density.Bach didn't complete the grandiose four-part final fugue, which was meant to culminate in a theme based on the letters of his name (B flat, A, C and B natural,  in German parlance). Mr. Baron's arrangement stopped short where Bach's score trailed off, and the momentary silence was wrenching. The performance concluded with a chorale Bach had originally composed 30 years earlier, "I Come Before Thy Throne," which he dictated again to a scribe as his own end approached.Chu-Fang Huang has done well on the piano competition circuit, and it's easy to see why. At Zankel Hall on Monday evening, she demonstrated a steely technique and a huge, powerful sound of the sort usually associated with burly Russian players, although Ms. Huang is fairly petite and was trained in China and the United States. The only teachers listed in her program biography, Claude Frank and Robert McDonald, are gentler, more subtle players than she is.But power, heft and assertiveness impress juries, and Ms. Huang won first prize at the Cleveland International Piano Competition in 2005. The same year, she was a finalist at the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition and in 2006 she was a winner at the Young Concert Artists International Auditions. It was under the auspices of Young Concert Artists  that she performed on Monday.Ms. Huang began big, playing the opening bars of Schumann's Fantasy in C (Op. 17) with a storminess that might have taken even Schumann aback. This is a volatile piece, torn between memorializing Beethoven (its original point) and wallowing in the pain of being separated from Clara Wieck, whom Schumann eventually married. It gives the impression of being introspective, but it's theatrical introspection, with a touch of the histrionic.Ms. Huang addressed it in broad strokes, but she also captured the graceful mysteries of the slow section within the second movement and the stateliness of the finale. Still, the balance between muscularity and suppleness was weighted toward brawn, even more decisively in "La Valse," Ravel's swirling evocation of the dance. Moments of ballroom glitter — lightened textures with washes of rapid high notes — flitted past, but the vision of a gargantuan orchestra overwhelmed all else.The second half should have offered respite, beginning as it did with Haydn's Sonata in B minor (Hob. XVI:32). But no, Ms. Huang's Haydn is a grand thunderer too, with the repeated notes of the closing Presto played with a jackhammer insistence.In her closing work, Prokofiev's Sonata No. 7 (Op. 83), though, Ms. Huang was fully in her element, and at long last her element was within shouting distance of the composer's. The outer movements demand aggression and sustained all Ms. Huang supplied. And she played the central Andante caloroso with a surprisingly delicate, gauzy sound that yielded the kind of textural magic heard only fleetingly in the Ravel.A sampling of noteworthy musical presentations for the holiday season at churches and concert halls in New York City, selected by Vivien Schweitzer. All are free unless otherwise noted. (Churches accept donations.) More holiday events this weekend are in The Listings on Pages 28 to 31; an expanded listing can also be found on nytimes.com/arts.  (Unless noted, church choirs are featured in church concerts.)SaturdayCARNEGIE HALL, Stern Auditorium. "Holidays Around the World," seasonal music; the Young People's Chorus of New York City; Francisco J. Núñez, artistic director. 2 p.m. $9. (212) 247-7800; carnegiehall.org.CLOISTERS, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights. "A Christmas Story," with music from the 10th to the 15th centuries. Waverly Consort; Michael Jaffee, director. 1 and 3 p.m. Sunday's shows at 1 and 3 p.m. are sold out. $45, including museum admission. (212) 650-2290; metmuseum.org.SundayCATHEDRAL CHURCH OF ST. JOHN THE DIVINE (Episcopal), Synod Hall, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 110th Street, Morningside Heights. "A Dutch Christmas," with 16th- and 17th-century holiday songs and works by von Eyck and Sweelinck; Early Music New York; Frederick Renz, director. At 3 p.m. Also Dec. 23 and Christmas Day at 3 and 8 p.m. $40; $20 for students. (212) 280-0330; earlymusicny.org.CHRIST CHURCH RIVERDALE (Episcopal), 252nd Street and Henry Hudson Parkway, Riverdale, the Bronx. "Music for Chorus and Harp," with Britten's Ceremony of Carols. Riverdale Choral Society; Mimi S. Daitz, conductor; Silvia Kowalczuk, harpist. 4 p.m. $15 ($13 with Bronx Cultural Card; bronxarts.org.) (718) 543-2219.CHURCH OF ST. VINCENT FERRER (Roman Catholic), 869 Lexington Avenue, at 66th Street. Gaunlett's "Once in Royal David's City," Wood's "Ding, Dong, Merrily on High," Rutter's "There Is a Flower" and "Shepherd's Pipe Carol," Victoria's "O Magnum Mysterium" and other works; Mark Bani, organist and music director. 3 p.m. (212) 744-2080, Ext. 114.CHURCH OF THE HOLY APOSTLES (Episcopal), 296 Ninth Avenue, at 28th Street, Chelsea. "Chants and Carols, Ancient and Modern," with Salamone Rossi's "Elohim Hashivenu," Alan Hovhaness's "Glory to God," Billings's "I Am Come Into My Garden" and other works; with soloists; Jack Eppler, music director. 4 p.m. Donation, $10. (212)475-2702; holyapostlescommunitychorus.org.CHURCH OF THE INCARNATION (Episcopal), 209 Madison Avenue at 35th Street. Bach's "Brandenburg" Concerto No. 4 in G and "Zion hört die Wachter singen," Biebl's "Ave Maria," Poulenc's "O Magnum Mysterium" and traditional carols and other works; Matthew Lewis, organist and music director. 5 p.m. (212) 689-6350.CORPUS CHRISTI CHURCH (Roman Catholic), 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights. Finck's "Missa Domincalis," Palestrina's "Christe Redemptor Omnium" and organ works by Walter and Büttstedt; with soloists; Louise Basbas, music director and organist. 11:15 a.m. "A Piper's Noël," featuring works by de Morales, Isaac, Brumel, des Prez and others; Ciaramella, music ensemble, with soloists. 4 p.m. $25 to $40 ($20 to $35 for students). Presented by Music Before 1800. (212) 666-9266; mb1800.org.GREEK ORTHODOX ARCHDIOCESAN CATHEDRAL OF THE HOLY TRINITY, 319 East 74th Street, Manhattan. Candlelight Christmas concert, with Lauridsen's "O Magnum Mysterium," Bennett's "Many Moods of Christmas," Byzantine chants and traditional carols; the Little Orchestra Society; Metropolitan Singers/ Greek Choral Society; with Angela Meade, soprano; Dino Anagnost, conductor. 5:30 p.m. $35 to $150. (212) 971-9500; littleorchestra.org.GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street. "Works and Process," with Scheidt's "In Dulci Jubilo," Britten's "Hymn to the Virgin," Sweelinck's "Hodie Christus Natus Est"; works by Bach, Grüber, Praetorius and others and traditional carols; Vox Vocal Ensemble and the Graham Ashtown Brass Ensemble; George Steel, conductor. 6 p.m. Also Monday at 6 p.m. www.worksandprocess.org. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH (Lutheran), Central Park West at 65th Street. "Songs of Mary," with Pachelbel's "Magnificat," Eccard's "Uebers Gebirg Maria Geht," Distler's "Maria Walks Amid the Thorn," Mendelssohn's "Im Advent" and other works. 5 p.m. Rick Erickson, music director. (212) 877-6815.PLYMOUTH CHURCH OF THE PILGRIMS (Congregational), Orange Street, between Hicks and Henry Streets, Brooklyn Heights. Tavener's "Lamb," Gardner's "Tomorrow Shall Be My Dancing Day," Bach's "Suscepit Israel" from "Magnificat" and other works. 6 p.m. (718) 624-4743.RIVERSIDE CHURCH (Interdenominational), 490 Riverside Drive, at 120th Street, Morningside Heights. Rutter's "Jesus Child," Holst's "Christmas Day," Rachmaninoff's "Ave Maria," Tavener's "Lamb" and other works; with instrumentalists; Timothy Smith, organist and music director. 3:30 and 6 p.m. $25, $15 for students and 65+, $10 for children 12 and younger. (212) 870-6784.ST. GEORGE'S CHURCH (Episcopal), 209 East 16th Street, Manhattan. Works by Tallis, Britten and Handel; with soloists; Alf Bishai, music director. 4 p.m. (646) 723-4178. ST. JOHN'S IN THE VILLAGE (Episcopal), 218 West 11th Street, Greenwich Village. Distler's "Lo, How a Rose," Near's "Advent Carol," Tavener's "Lamb" and other works; Gordon King, director. 4 p.m. (212) 243-6192; stjvny.org.TuesdayMETROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, Medieval Sculpture Hall. Traditional Christmas concert, with works by Corrette, Bach, Bruhns and Rameau; Aulos Ensemble; Julianne Baird, soprano. 6:30 and 8:30 p.m. $60. (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org.WednesdayCHURCH OF THE TRANSFIGURATION (Little Church Around the Corner, Episcopal), 1 East 29th Street, Manhattan. Perotin's "Beata Viscera," Gibbons's "O Thou the Central Orb" and "This Is the Record of John," Byrd's "Lullaby My Sweet Little Baby" and Praetorius's "Quempas Carol" and "In Dulci Jubilo"; New York Consort of Viols; with soloists; Judith Davidoff, music director. 7:30 p.m. $15 for students and for people 62 and older; $25 for other adults. Reservations: (212) 684-4174; littlechurch.org.METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, Medieval Sculpture Hall. Christmas music by Mendelssohn and Tchaikovsky and contemporary holiday music by Mel Tormé and others; Burning River Brass. 6:30 and 8:30 p.m. $60. (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org.ST. MICHAEL'S CHURCH (Episcopal), 225 West 99th Street, Manhattan. Candlelight concert with works by Altenburg, Vierdanck, Schütz, Handel, Praetorius, Schein and others; the Teares of the Muses Viola da Gamba Consort; Margaret Panofsky, director; John Cantrell, choirmaster. 7:30 p.m. (212) 222-2700, Ext. 24; saintmichaelschurch.org.ThursdayCHURCH OF OUR SAVIOUR (Roman Catholic), 59 Park Avenue, at 38th Street. Britten's "Ceremony of Carols," Busser's "Le Sommeil de l'Enfant Jesus" and Byrd's "Mento Salutis Auctor"; Robert Prior, music director. 6 p.m. (212) 679-8166.METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, Medieval Sculpture Hall. Britten's "Ceremony of Carols"; Choristers of the Church of the Heavenly Rest; Mollie Nichols, conductor; Emily Mitchell, harpist. 6:30 and 8:30 p.m. $60. (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org.ST. PATRICK'S CATHEDRAL (Roman Catholic), Fifth Avenue at 50th Street. "A City Singing at Christmas," with works by Adam, Gruber, Lauridsen, Rutter, Willcocks and others and traditional carols and hymns; Young People's Chorus of New York City and the Queens College Choir and Chorus; with organ and brass; Francisco Núñez, conductor. 7 p.m. (212) 753-2261, Ext. 274.ST. THOMAS CHURCH (Episcopal), Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street. Britten's "Ceremony of Carols"; Anna Reinersman, harpist. 5:30 p.m. Messiaen's "Nativité du Seigneur"; John Scott, organist and music director. 6:15 p.m. (212) 757-7013; saintthomaschurch.org.Next FridayST. PAUL'S CHAPEL (Episcopal), Fulton Street at Broadway, Lower Manhattan. Britten's Ceremony of Carols. 4:30 p.m. (212) 233-4164; trinitywallstreet.org.Dec. 2292ND STREET Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. "Songs of the Spirit," with holiday songs from around the world; Young People's Chorus of New York City; Francisco Núñez, music director. 7 p.m. $10 to $50. (212) 415-5500; 92y.org.ST. THOMAS CHURCH (Episcopal), Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street. Works by Woodward, Ledger, Tavener, Joubert and Mathias. 4 p.m. (212) 757-7013.Dec. 23CLOISTERS, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights. "Bright Day Star: Music for the Yuletide Season," with Christmas music from England, Scotland, France and Italy; the Baltimore Consort. 1 p.m. (the 3 p.m. show is sold out). $35, including museum admission. (212) 650-2290; metmuseum.org.CORPUS CHRISTI CHURCH (Roman Catholic), 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights. Victoria's Magnificat Primi Toni, de Morales's "Ecce Virgo Concipiet," Stravinsky's "Ave Maria" and works by Bach and Buxtehude; with soloists; Louise Basbas, organist and music director. 11:15 a.m. (212) 666-0675; corpus-christi-nyc.org.PARK AVENUE CHRISTIAN CHURCH (Disciples of Christ), 1010 Park Avenue, at 85th Street. Bach's "In Dulci Jubilo," Leighton's Prelude Fantasy 5: "O Come, O Come, Emmanuel" and carols by Adams, Holst, Bullard and others and traditional carols; Larry J. Long, organist; Andrew Adams, music director. 11 a.m. (212) 288-3246; parkavenuechristian.com.Christmas EveALL SAINTS CHURCH (Episcopal), 230 East 60th Street, Manhattan. Greene's "Anthem for Christmas Day," Praetorius's "Quem Pastores Laudavere," Holst's "I Sing of a Maiden" and other works; Cynthia Weinrich, music director. 10 p.m. (212) 758-0447; allsaintsnyc.org.ALL SOULS CHURCH (Unitarian-Universalist), 1157 Lexington Avenue, at 80th Street. Jolles's "This Endris Night"; Jolivet's "Pastorales de Noël"; Bach's "Schwingt Freudlich" from Cantata 36; Finzi's "Magnificat" and carols; with soloists; Walter Klauss, conductor. 7, 9 and 11 p.m. (212) 535-5530; allsoulsnyc.org.BLESSED SACRAMENT CHURCH (Roman Catholic), 152 West 71st Street, Manhattan. Charpentier's "Messe de Minuit," Victoria's "O Magnum Mysterium," Franck's "Noël Angevin," Adam's "O Holy Night" and other works; Amor Artis Chamber Choir; Johannes Somary, conductor and organist. 10:30 p.m. (212) 877-3111.BRICK PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, 62 East 92nd Street, Manhattan. Adam's "O Holy Night," Howells's "Spotless Rose," Rutter's "Rise Up, Shepherd, and Follow" and "There Is a Flower," Willcocks's "Infant Holy, Infant Lowly" and other works; with soloists and instrumentalists; Keith S. Toth, conductor; John B. Herrington III, organist. 10:30 p.m. (212) 289-4400.BROOKLYN ORATORY (Roman Catholic), Willoughby Street and Duffield Streets, downtown Brooklyn. Goss's "See, Amid the Winter's Snow," arranged by Willcocks, Britten's "Interlude for Harp," Langlais's "Nativité" and works by Bach, Rachmaninoff and others; Dennis B. Delaney, music director; Christopher J. Hatcher, organist; Margery Fitts, harpist. 10 p.m. (718) 875-2096.CHURCH OF SAINT IGNATIUS OF ANTIOCH (Episcopal), 552 West End Avenue,, at 87th Street, Manhattan. Poulenc's "Quem vVidistis," Mouton's "Nexciens Mater" and other works. 10:30 p.m. Palestrina's "O Magnum Mysterium" and works by Messiaen; Douglas Keilitz, music director. 11 p.m. (212)  580-3326.CHURCH OF ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA (Roman Catholic), Park Avenue at 84th Street. Vivaldi's "Gloria" and "O Magnum Mysterium," Poulenc's "O Magnum Mysterium" and Sweelinck's "Hodie Christus Natus Est"; with soloists; Kent Tritle, conductor; Nancianne Parrella, organist. 11:15 p.m. (212) 288-2520.CHURCH OF ST. LUKE IN THE FIELDS (Episcopal), 487 Hudson Street, south of Christopher Street, Greenwich Village. "Christmas Music from the Mexican Baroque," with works by Manuel de Sumaya, Tomás de Torrejón, Juan Gutiérrez de Padilla and Antonio de Salazar; with period instrumentalists; David Shuler, music director. 9:30 p.m. (212) 924-0562; stlukeinthefields.org.CHURCH OF ST. MARY THE VIRGIN (Episcopal), 145 West 46th Street, Manhattan. Rheinberger's "Cantus Missae," Darke's "In the Bleak Midwinter," Howells's "Here Is the Little Door," Rutter's "Angels' Carol," Poulenc's "O Magnum Mysterium" and other works; Robert McCormick, organist and music director. 10:30 p.m. (212) 869-5830.CHURCH OF ST. VINCENT FERRER (Roman Catholic), 869 Lexington Avenue, at 66th Street. Hancock's Fanfare on "Joy to the World," Daquin's Noël No. 4, Warlock's "Bethlemen Down," Yon's "Gesú Bambino," Adam's "O Holy Night"; excerpts from Handel's "Messiah" and Bach's "Christmas Oratorio" and other works; with soloists; Mark Bani, organist and music director. 9:30 p.m. (212) 744-2080, Ext. 114.CHURCH OF THE EPIPHANY (Episcopal), 1393 York Avenue, at 74th Street. Organ music by Leclair, Bach, Tournier and others. 10:30 p.m. Paulus's "A Savior From on High," Rutter's "Love Came Down at Christmas," Willcocks's "Sussex Carol" and other works; with soloists and instrumentalists; Elizabeth Hung Wong, organist and choirmaster. 11 p.m. (212) 737-2720; epiphanynyc.org.CHURCH OF THE ASCENSION (Episcopal), Fifth Avenue at 10th Street, West Village. Palestrina's "Alma Redemptoris Mater," Victoria's "O Magnum Mysterium," Mendelssohn's "Weinachten" from "Sechs Spruche," Vaughan Williams's "On Christmas Night" and carols and other works; Dennis Keene, organist and choirmaster. 10:30 p.m. (212) 254-8620.CHURCH OF THE HOLY APOSTLES (Episcopal), 296 Ninth Avenue, at 28th Street, Chelsea. Hurd's "A Stable Lamp Is Lighted" and Holy Apostles Mass, Buxtehude's "Das neugeborne Kindelein," Lauridsen's "Ave Maria" and other works; David Hurd, organist and music director; chamber ensemble from One World Symphony; Sung Jin Hong, director. 9:30 p.m. (212) 807-6799.CHURCH OF THE HOLY TRINITY (Episcopal), 316 East 88th Street, Manhattan. Bach's "Break Forth, O Beauteous Light," Rutter's "Shepherd's Pipe Carol," Sweelinck's "Hodie Christus Natus Est," Adam's "O Holy Night" and hymns; Stephen Hamilton, organist and choirmaster; Stephen Fraser, organist. 5 and 10:30 p.m. (212) 289-4100, Ext. 210; holytrinity-nyc.org.CORPUS CHRISTI CHURCH (Roman Catholic), 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights. Scarlatti's "Agnus Dei" from "Missa Quatuor Vocum," Vaughan Williams's "On Christmas Night," Dering's "Quem Vidistis, Pastores," Lassus's "Resonet in Laudibus" and other works; with soloists; Louise Basbas, music director and organist. 11:30 p.m. (212) 666-9350; corpus-christi-nyc.org.FIFTH AVENUE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, Fifth Avenue at 55th Street. Works by Yon, Duruflé, Tchaikovsky, Saint-Saëns, Adam, Britten and others; K. Scott Warren, interim music director and organist; André Tarantiles, harpist. 7 and 10 p.m. (212) 247-0490; fapc.org.FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, Fifth Avenue, at 11th Street, Greenwich Village. Distler's "Lo, How a Rose E'er Springing," Willcocks's Sussex Carol and "Ding, Dong, Merrily on High," Rutter's "What Sweeter Music" and other works; William Entriken, music director and organist. 10:30 p.m. (212) 675-6150.IMMANUEL LUTHERAN CHURCH, 122 East 88th Street, Manhattan. Britten's "Hymn to the Virgin," Carter's "Mary's Magnificat," Sweelinck's "Hodie Christus Natus Est," Victoria's "O Magnum Mysterium" and other works; with brass ensemble and musicians on early instruments; Gwendolyn Toth, music director. 6:30 p.m. (212) 289-8128.MARBLE COLLEGIATE CHURCH (Reformed Church in America), Fifth Avenue at 29th Street, Chelsea. Gabrieli's "O Magnum Mysterium," Holst's "This Have I Done for My True Love," Adam's "O Holy Night" and other works; with soloists and Chelsea Brass Ensemble; Sharon Moe, ensemble director; Kenneth Dake, director. 6:30 and 8:30 p.m. (212) 686-2770.ST. CLEMENT'S CHURCH (Episcopal), 423 West 46th Street, Clinton. Bach's "Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring," from "Mary, Did You Know?," arranged by Jack Schrader; an African psalm, arranged by Patrick M. Liebergen, and a 14th-century German carol; with soloists; Darryl Curry, music director. 11 p.m. (212) 246-7277.ST. JAMES'S CHURCH (Episcopal), 865 Madison Avenue, at 71st Street. Gibbs's "Salutation Carol," Howells's "A Spotless Rose," Poulenc's "Hodie Christus Natus Est," Handel's Sonata in F, Mathias's "Babe Is Born" and other works; Compostela Choir. 10:30 p.m. (212) 288-4100.ST. JOSEPH'S IN GREENWICH VILLAGE (Roman Catholic), 371 Avenue of the Americas, at Waverly Place, Greenwich Village. Victoria's "O Magnum Mysterium" and selections from Handel's "Messiah" and Saint-Saëns's "Christmas Oratorio"; Jin Krista Kang, music director. 9 p.m. (212) 741-1274.ST. PATRICK'S CATHEDRAL (Roman Catholic), Fifth Avenue at 50th Street. Works by Adam, Gruber, Handel, Lauridsen, Morten, Willcocks and Yon; and traditional carols and hymns. New York Symphonic Brass and soloists; Jennifer Pascual, music director. 11 p.m. Tickets, if available, through the parish office. (212) 753-2261; saintpatrickscathedral.org.ST. THOMAS CHURCH (Episcopal), Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street. A festival of lessons and carols with works by Vaughan Williams, Ord, Berlioz, Tavener and others. 4 p.m. Festival music for trumpet, organ and strings; with Concert Royal and solo instrumentalists; 10:30 p.m. Music by Haydn and Handel and carols by Willcocks, Rutter and Darke; with Concert Royal. 11 p.m. (212) 757-7013; saintthomaschurch.org.Christmas DayCHURCH OF ST. VINCENT FERRER (Roman Catholic), 869 Lexington Avenue, at 66th Street. Guilmant's "Offertoire sur Deux Noëls," Daquin's Noël No. 10, Darke's Mass in F, Willcocks's "O Come, All Ye Faithful" and "Masters in this Hall," Rutter's Nativity Carol, Bani's arrangement of "Silent Night" and "Joy to the World," and other works; with soloists; Mark Bani, music director and organist. 11:45 a.m. (212) 744-2080, Ext. 114.CORPUS CHRISTI CHURCH (Roman Catholic), 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights. Porta's "Agnus Dei," de Monte's "Hodie Noblis Caelorum Rex," Marenzio's "Hodie Christus Natus Est" and works by Buxtehude and Walter and Gregorian chants; with soloists; Louise Basbas, organist and music director. 11:15 a.m. (212) 666-9350; corpus-christi-nyc.org.MADISON AVENUE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, 921 Madison Avenue, at 73rd Street. Langlais's "La Nativité," Willcocks's "Infant Holy, Infant Lowly," Shaw's "Coventry Carol," Rutter's "Nativity Carol" and other works; Andrew Henderson, organist and music director. 11:15 a.m. (212) 288-8920; mapc .com.Ike Turner, the R&B musician, songwriter, bandleader, producer, talent scout and ex-husband of Tina Turner, died on Wednesday at his home in San Marcos, Calif., a San Diego suburb. He was 76.His death was announced by Jeanette Bazzell Turner, who married Mr. Turner in 1995. She gave no cause of death, but said he had had emphysema.Mr. Turner was best known for discovering Anna Mae Bullock, a teenage singer from Nutbush, Tenn., whom he renamed Tina Turner. The Ike and Tina Turner Revue made a string of hits in the 1960s before the Turners broke up in 1975.Tina Turner described the relationship as abusive in her autobiography, "I, Tina," which was adapted for the 1993 film "What's Love Got to Do With It?" and made Mr. Turner's name synonymous with domestic abuse."I got a temper," he admitted in 1999 in his autobiography, "Takin' Back My Name: The Confessions of Ike Turner."  But he maintained that the film had "overstated" it.Mr. Turner's career extended back to the 1950s, when he played with pioneering Mississippi Delta bluesmen and helped shape early rock 'n' roll as well as soul and rhythm-and-blues. "Rocket 88," a song his band released in 1951 under the name Jackie Brenston and his Delta Cats, is regularly cited as a contender for the first rock-'n'-roll record for its beat, its distorted guitar and its honking saxophone.Ike and Tina Turner were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1991.Ike Turner, whose full name is variously given as Izear Luster Turner Jr. and Ike Wister Turner, was born in Clarksdale, Miss., and was brought up there by his mother after his father, a minister, was beaten to death by a white mob.As a child Ike spent time at the local radio station, WROX, a hub for Delta blues performances. According to Mr. Turner's autobiography, the D.J.s taught him how to cue up and segue records, sometimes leaving him alone on the air when he was 8 years old.He grew up around Delta musicians like the bluesman Robert Nighthawk Jr. and the pianist Pinetop Perkins, who gave him boogie-woogie lessons, and he learned to play guitar.In high school he formed a group called the Kings of Rhythm. B. B. King helped that band get a steady weekend gig and recommended it to Sam Phillips at Sun Studios in Memphis. The band had been performing jukebox hits, but on the drive from Mississippi to Memphis, its members decided to write something of their own.Their saxophonist, Jackie Brenston, suggested a song about the new Rocket 88 Oldsmobile. The piano-pounding intro and the first verse were by Mr. Turner, and the band collaborated on the rest; Mr. Brenston sang.Sun was not yet its own record label, so Mr. Phillips sent the song to Chess Records. It went on to sell a half-million copies. "I was playing rhythm and blues," Mr. Turner wrote. "That's all I was playing." His book says he was paid $20 for the record.Mr. Turner became a session guitarist, known for his flamboyant, note-bending use of his guitar's whammy bar. He was also a producer, songwriter and talent scout for Sun and for RPM/Modern Records. He worked with Mr. King, Bobby (Blue) Bland, Howlin' Wolf, Johnny Ace, Otis Rush, Elmore James and many other blues and R&B musicians.In 1954 he moved up the Mississippi River to East St. Louis, Ill., where his disciplined and dynamic band became a major draw at local clubs. There, in 1958, he heard Anna Mae Bullock, who joined the group and quickly became its focal point as Tina Turner. The band was soon renamed the Ike and Tina Turner Revue. Her lead vocal on "A Fool in Love" started a streak of Top 10 R&B hits for the revue and also reached the pop Top 40. It was followed by "It's Gonna Work Out Fine" in 1961. The duo became stars on the grueling so-called chitlin' circuit of African-American clubs.Ike and Tina Turner had a wedding ceremony in Tijuana, Mexico, in 1962; Mr. Turner's book said they were never actually married. They had a son, Ronald, who survives him, along with Jeanette Bazzell Turner and four other children: Mia, Twanna, Michael and Ike Jr.The Rolling Stones chose the Ike and Tina Turner Revue as its opening act on a 1969 tour, introducing it to many rock fans. In 1971 the revue reached the pop Top 10 with its version of Creedence Clearwater Revival's "Proud Mary," with Ike's deep vocal counterpoint and Tina's memorable spoken-word interlude. "We never do anything nice and easy," Ms. Turner says in the song. "We always do it nice and rough." That song won a Grammy Award for best R&B performance by a group.Ms. Turner's account of the couple's years together describes domestic violence, infidelity and drug use; his version does not deny that, although he wrote in his book, "Tina and me, we had our fights, but we ain't had no more fights than anybody else."Tina walked out on him in 1975. Mr. Turner, already abusing cocaine and alcohol, spiraled further downward during the 1980s while Ms. Turner became a multimillion-selling star on her own. A recording studio he had built in Los Angeles burned down in 1982, and he was arrested repeatedly on drug charges. In 1989 he went to prison for various cocaine-possession offenses and was in jail when he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.But he had a windfall when the hip-hop duo Salt 'N' Pepa used a sample of his song "I'm Blue" for their 1993 hit "Shoop," which reached No. 4 on the Billboard pop chart.Mr. Turner set out to reclaim his place in rock history. He wrote his autobiography with a British writer, Nigel Cawthorne. At the 2001 Chicago Blues Festival he performed with Pinetop Perkins in a set filmed for the Martin Scorsese PBS series "The Blues." He renamed his band the Kings of Rhythm and re-recorded "Rocket 88" for the 2001 album "Here and Now." He toured internationally, recording a live album and DVD, "The Resurrection," at the Montreux Jazz Festival in 2002. He visited high schools during Black History Month with an antidrug message. He recorded a song with the British band Gorillaz in 2005.In the end, the music business embraced him: Mr. Turner's 2006 album, "Risin' With the Blues," won the Grammy this year as best traditional blues album.THE party took place on a recent Tuesday night at R Bar, a midsize nightspot in downtown Manhattan with comfortable banquettes, four stripper poles and large framed photos of scantily clad models on the crimson walls. The lounge is on an emerging stretch of the Bowery  that looked very different 15 years ago. The people inside? Less so.In tribute to the year 1992, an elevated D.J. segued through records by erstwhile hip-hop artists like K-Solo and Apache and into dance music by Color Me Badd and Bobby Brown, while members of the crowd swarmed the bar and contorted in dated dance steps. Some participants took the theme particularly seriously, wearing vintage Polo sweaters, retro Air Jordan sneakers and chunky gold door knocker earrings.A celebration of the  urban culture of the early 1990s, the monthly party is known simply as 1992. Bouncing around downtown Manhattan clubs since August 2006, it has attracted celebrity guests like Jay-Z, the producer Jermaine Dupri and the music mogul Andre Harrell. Europeans, hankering for a slice of retrograde Americana, have taken the party to Paris and Amsterdam."If you don't know the past, you'll just follow the trends that are going on now," said Stephen Barr, 26, of West Hempstead, N.Y., a designer of T-shirts that coordinate with Nike SB skateboarding sneakers. Tall, burly and bearded, he wore a vintage Polo ski jacket with a "1992" patch on the breast pocket. A party regular, he said, "It's more about camaraderie than meeting girls and all that stuff."While the shimmering synthesizers, leg warmers and asymmetrical New Wave haircuts of the 1980s have been alternatively ridiculed, revered and replicated, the early 1990s have  remained an untapped source of retro lodestone. In 1992  the cold war had ended, Bill Clinton was on his way to the White House  and  Euro Disneyland was being panned by the French. But in urban circles, it was distinctive for different reasons — hip-hop culture was teetering at the departure point between its past as a street-level phenomenon and its future as a global powerhouse."The '90s felt very, very underground, and not everyone really heard it," said Oscar Sanchez, 30, a break dancer who put together the first 1992 event at the meatpacking district club Lotus. While contemplating themes for a new party, he opted for the music he cherished as a Brooklyn teenager: besides hip-hop and R&B, popular mutations like new jack swing, hip-house and dance hall reggae. "I picked 1992 because it was the pinnacle of fashion and that whole sound," he said.Maya Arulpragasam, the British singer who performs as M.I.A., chanted "Where were you in '92?" on her recent album, "Kala." She described the appeal of the early 1990s as "instinctual." In the video for her single "Boyz," American fashion abominations like Cross Colours jumpsuits and zebra-striped overalls were featured prominently."We collected every piece of clothing that, at the time, was embarrassing," she said in a telephone interview.The organizers counted on the idea that the primal desire to reconnect with adolescence — minus the agonies of acne and fourth-period earth science — extends beyond  those who listened to Bel Biv DeVoe and wore fluorescent spandex."That was the age when you're leaving your preteens and experimenting with clothes and music," said Vashtie Kola, 27, a founder of  the 1992 parties. "I think even kids who weren't in an urban area who grew up at that time can relate to that period and that year."But to the hip-hop cognoscenti, the early '90s are considered a golden era. "I don't know how to characterize it any further than saying it was the best time ever," said Danyel Smith, the editor in chief of Vibe magazine. "Everything just seems special and etched in stone as the most beautiful, incredible, smart, super post-modern moment in the history of this music."Such a stance may smack of crusty ageism, but 1992 marked a stylistic crossroads; within a year, the synchronized dances and whimsical clothing would be bludgeoned into obscurity by the gritty sound and military-style gear of choleric rappers like Wu-Tang Clan, Onyx and Boot Camp Clik.By resuscitating music that tumbled from the Billboard charts, the 1992 party draws many who find contemporary fare too abrasive. "It's what I think really represents hip-hop; it was creative, fun — it wasn't all that 'shoot 'em up, bang-bang,'" said Maxwell Dixon, who as a rapper called Grand Puba  released the solo album "Reel to Reel" in 1992.Invited to host a 1992 party last April, Mr. Dixon was pleased to see thick gold dookie rope necklaces and high-top fade haircuts. "The Rolling Stones been around forever, but they seem to exist generation after generation after generation," he said. "That's how I think it should be with hip-hop," he said.Just as Mick Jagger's skin-tight pants were resurrected as skinny jeans, fashions of the early 1990s find new life at the 1992 party. Revelers in their late 20s and early 30s in head-to-toe Ralph Lauren Polo mix with recent Fashion Institute of Technology grads in neon-colored jeans.Retro-oriented scenes often wink at the cartoonish aspects of the era they celebrate, but there is little irony here. "The early '90 was the last good style moment in the past 10, 15 years," said James Filsaime, a 20-year-old from Brooklyn who wore a pink, orange and green Sergio Tacchini windbreaker and turquoise jeans he admitted were "actually from 1991."For many in the crowd, the 1992 party is less a costume party than a chance to  reinterpret trends from the past. Gaudy jewelry, retro sneakers and bug-eyed sunglasses are as ubiquitous as they were 15 years ago."It's like taking the aesthetic of the '90s and putting it on garments we feel and understand and are willing to wear," said Jahream, 27, of Harlem,  who goes by  his first name. He wore white Cazal 704 sunglasses, a vintage Washington Redskins starter jacket customized to read "Blackskins" on the back, and a Haile Selassie medallion. "We might not put on a polka-dot silk shirt, but the polka-dots were hot — we'll put them on a hoodie and rock that," Jahream said.Of course, not everything from the past can be updated. "There are certain things I'll bring back," said Shyvonne Sanganoo, 22, a marketing assistant at Def Jam Enterprises who was attending her first 1992 party. "But fanny packs? I got bad memories, I can't do it.""Look," an unsettling, rudely funny but not entirely credible feature by the writer and director Adam Rifkin, is an ensemble narrative for the age of public surveillance.Workplace cameras observe the likes of a convenience store clerk (Giuseppe Andrews) playing hilariously trite pop tunes for his best friend; a socially maladjusted insurance salesman (Ben Weber) enduring co-workers' cruel pranks;  an alpha male department store manager (Hayes MacArthur) enjoying back-room trysts with employees;  and a sexually insatiable young woman (Spencer Redford) hatching a plan to sleep with a married teacher and soon-to-be father (Jamie McShane).Throughout, Mr. Rifkin and his imaginative cinematographer, Ron Forsythe, explore how surveillance devices have complicated the act of deception by eroding the distinction between public and private space. (Note to self: don't pick your nose on an elevator.)But between the likelihood of surveillance cameras capturing every dramatically significant moment (with crystal-clear sound) and the filmmaker's deployment of ripped-from-the-tabloids ugliness to amp up viewer involvement, "Look" grows less compelling and believable as it unreels. And the less said about Mr. Rifkin's rampaging duo of "Candid Camera Killers" — a "Natural Born Killers"-flavored version of those subplot-linking devices that Robert Altman used to employ with such aplomb — the better.LOOKOpens on Friday  in Manhattan. Written and directed by Adam Rifkin; director of photography, Ron Forsythe; edited by Martin Apelbaum; music by B T; produced by Brad Wyman and Barry Schuler; released by Vitagraph Films. At Angelika Film Center, Mercer and Houston Streets, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes.WITH: Hayes MacArthur (Tony Gilbert), Giuseppe Andrews (Willie), Spencer Redford (Sherri Van Haften), Rhys Coiro (Ace), Heather Hogan (Holly), Jennifer Fontaine (Louise), Ben Weber (Marty), Paul Shackman (Ben), Chris Williams (George Higgins)  and Jamie McShane (Barry Krebbs).Twenty years after his death, Andy Warhol continues to exert a powerful, almost queasy fascination, not only because of his work — which has proven more durable and interesting than it may have seemed before — but also because of the enigma of his personality. He has become a recurrent figure in movies, documentary and otherwise, where he is often  inscrutable and vaguely sinister,   a watchful predator in relation to the young people who surrounded him in the 1960s Factory days.The idea of Warhol as a corrupter and destroyer of innocence was fairly overt in George Hickenlooper's "Factory Girl," which starred Sienna Miller as Edie Sedgwick, a well-born New Englander who appeared in some of Warhol's films. The notion is implicit in "A Walk Into the Sea," Esther B. Robinson's documentary about Danny Williams, a former  Harvard  student   who was also part of the Factory scene.Mr. Williams was a film editor and camera operator, and  some of the people interviewed in the documentary  say he was Warhol's lover, or at least occasional sex partner, as well. Old pictures show a handsome, smart-looking young man, and Factory veterans remember him that way, some of them with remarkable vividness. In 1966 Mr. Williams disappeared near his family's house on the Massachusetts coast. His body was never recovered, and the causes of his presumed death remain mysterious. Was it suicide, a drug overdose, an accident? Was Warhol somehow to blame?Ms. Robinson, who is Mr. Williams's niece, does a pretty good job of reconstructing the creative and psychological whirlwind around Warhol. His critics and his apologists have their say, as do old associates whose ambivalence is as acute now as it must have been in  the mid-'60s.  The conflicting, occasionally harmonizing testimony of Brigid Berlin, John Cale, Paul Morrissey and others is fascinating, but Danny Williams himself remains the missing piece, despite clips from 16-millimeter  films he shot. Though she interviews his mother  (her grandmother)  and several  of his siblings, Ms. Robinson provides little detail about her uncle's life, and virtually nothing about his pre-Warhol existence. And the film, one suspects by accident as much as by design, feels tentative and unfinished, the incomplete pursuit of suspected secrets that remain undisclosed.A WALK INTO THE SEADanny Williams and the Warhol FactoryOpens on Friday  in Manhattan. Directed by Esther B. Robinson; written by Ms. Robinson and Shannon Kennedy; director of photography, Adam Cohen; edited by Ms. Kennedy; music by T. Griffin; produced by Ms. Robinson, Doug Block and Tamra Raven; released by Arthouse Films and Red Envelope Entertainment. At the Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 18 minutes. This film is not rated.
