HOUSTON — On Friday night here at Warehouse Live, 48 hours and 1,500 miles from the Grammy Awards, more than a thousand fans gathered for a different sort of musical celebration.The concert was advertised as a solo show by Bun B, the Port Arthur, Tex., rapper who has been a defining figure in Houston hip-hop for more than 15 years. But the concert also functioned as a tribute to Pimp C, Bun B's partner in the pioneering duo UGK, who was found dead in his West Hollywood, Calif., hotel room on Dec. 4. On Dec. 6 it was announced that, for the first time, the duo had been nominated for a Grammy. "Int'l Players Anthem (I Choose You)," by UGK featuring OutKast, was up for best rap performance by a duo or group.This was Bun B's first show since then, and it was a tough, courageous one. In the crowd there were dozens of different varieties of "R.I.P. Pimp C" T-shirts, some homemade. And onstage Bun B was joined by a coterie of rappers and friends, including Pimp C's mother, widely known as Mama Wes. She was easy to spot in a sporty red military shirt with "Mama" emblazoned on one pocket. And from time to time, if you looked closely, you could see her lips moving in time to the beat.As he accepted one of many ovations, Bun B said he felt so good, "it don't make no sense." Later he delivered a different message: "I miss him." Either way he was confirming fans' hopes and fears. Yes, Bun B is still going strong. And yes, Pimp C, an illustrious rapper and producer and provocateur, is still gone.Earlier last week the Los Angeles County coroner announced the cause of death: promethazine and codeine, key ingredients in prescription cough syrup, which may have combined with his sleep apnea to stop his breathing. This was especially grim news because it wasn't entirely unexpected. Prescription cough syrup — sometimes diluted, and often called "drank" or "lean" or "purp" — is the recreational drug most closely associated with Houston's fertile hip-hop scene.Syrup often seems inextricable from the slow and sometimes psychedelic sound of Houston hip-hop. (This is a city where record stores sell cough-syrup-flavored air freshener.) DJ Screw became a local hero — and an inspiration to producers around the country — with his syrup-friendly slow-motion remixes; he died of an overdose in 2000. The Houston rapper Big Moe, whose output included a great 2000 album called, "City of Syrup," died after a heart attack last October. On the back cover of a new Houston mixtape, "Keep On Stackin 3," the rapper J-Dawg delivers a message: "R.I.P. Big Moe," inscribed on a plastic-foam cup, the vessel of choice for syrup sippers.It would be disingenuous — maybe even unfair — to pretend that Pimp C had no connection to syrup. (After all, his own rhymes were thrillingly unexpurgated.) One of UGK's biggest hits was "Sippin' on Some Syrup," a brilliant and hallucinatory collaboration with Three 6 Mafia and Project Pat. One of his most recent solo singles was "Pourin' Up," from 2006. In a track from more than a decade ago, Pimp C claimed he was forsaking syrup in favor of Dom Pérignon. But last year, on UGK's triumphant double-album, "Underground Kingz" (Jive/Zomba), Pimp C still mentioned "sippin' drank."Since the early 1990s UGK has been a force in Houston and throughout the South, helping lay the groundwork for this decade's Southern hip-hop explosion. After a string of excellent underground CDs, the duo had a brush with pop success in 1999, when both members appeared on Jay-Z's hit single "Big Pimpin'." (That song was nominated for a Grammy and lost; this year was the first time UGK was nominated as the principal performer.) After "Big Pimpin'," UGK was on the verge of a commercial breakthrough that never came. And by 2002 Pimp C was in jail, serving a sentence stemming from an aggravated assault charge.While Pimp C was locked up, Bun B became his most vocal advocate, and also a reluctant solo star; he single-handedly turned "Free Pimp C" into a hip-hop catchphrase. Backstage before the concert Bun B said, "We didn't understand what 'Free Pimp C' really meant." Pimp C was released on Dec. 30, 2005, and he had less than two years to enjoy his new life.Now Bun B is on his own again, reprising the solo career he began while Pimp C was in prison; in a sense that ordeal was a rehearsal for this one. "I'm not sure if I would have been able to come back so soon, if it hadn't been for that," he said. His second solo album, "II Trill" (Rap-A-Lot/Asylum), is due out on April 1. And he is scheduled to perform at this year's South by Southwest festival in Austin, Tex.; that performance is to be the start of a national tour.As Friday's concert demonstrated, Bun B isn't just Pimp C's bereaved musical partner. He's a scarily precise rapper, known for his hard enunciation, his fluctuating line lengths and his thoughtful lyrics. He emerged onstage delivering "Bun," a brash exposition on the ethics and aesthetics of street life. As he made his way through his — and UGK's — greatest hits, he was joined by a handful of Houston rappers: Slim Thug for "3 Kings," Mike Jones for "My 64," Z-Ro for "Get Throwed."Near the end of the set Bun B led audience members in rap-along renditions of some of Pimp C's rhymes. (It was odd — and quite moving — to hear Bun B's rat-a-tat voice trying to fill the spaces left by Pimp C's long, braying vowels.) During a verse from "Hi-Life" streetwise swagger gave way to piety: "What you gon' do when the devil poke you with his fork?" In deference to Pimp C that last word was pronounced, "folk."When it finally came time for "One Day," one of the duo's best-loved tracks, the club got a little bit quieter. Bun B asked, "H-Town, y'all got my back?" And soon everyone was reciting one of Pimp C's most memorable verses, a clear-eyed appraisal of crime and jail and death. It ends with a plea: "If you got kids, show 'em you love 'em, 'cause God just might call 'em home/'Cause one day they here, and baby, the next day they gone." Bun B had sunk to the floor. "This is UGK for life," he said. "Don't leave me now. I need you bad."It's a cardinal rule of tribute concerts and memorial services and newspaper articles about great musicians who die too young: You're supposed to emphasize the good, saying something comforting about a spirit living on, forever unforgotten. And it's true: Pimp C's brash voice will echo for a long time, in music old and new; Bun B says a new album of unreleased UGK music is on the way.But on Friday night it was hard not to be overwhelmed by what's gone. Houston's sad roll call keeps getting longer: not just Pimp C and Big Moe and DJ Screw, but also Fat Pat, H.A.W.K., Big Steve, Big Mello and others. A few years ago Houston hip-hop was exploding; now the boom has come and gone, leaving the survivors to plot their next moves. Backstage Bun B said, "We had a good run, now it's time to knuckle down." No doubt he's right. But it won't be the same.CLASSICALFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.Opera'CARMEN' (Saturday) Bizet's beloved barn burner seems to be a hit; Saturday's performance, according to the Met's Web site, is sold out. Olga Borodina and Marcelo Alvarez return as Carmen and Don José. Lucio Gallo is still Escamillo. Maija Kovalevska is Micaela. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362- 6000, metopera.org; $27 to $375. (Bernard Holland)'THE DANGEROUS LIAISONS' (Thursday) Dicapo Opera Theater presents the New York premiere of this work by Conrad Susa in a new chamber version reduced by Randol Bass. The opera, with an English libretto by Philip Littell, features the mezzo-soprano Sarah Heltzel as the wealthy widow Marquise de Merteuil, the baritone Michael Chioldi as Valmont, and the soprano Anna Noggle as Madame de Tourvel, the virtuous wife. The production is by Michael Capasso; Oliver Gooch conducts. At 7:30 p.m., 184 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-9438, dicapo.com; $55. (Vivien Schweitzer)'IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA' (Thursday) The cast is holding steady for this nice revival from Bartlett Sher, with the excellent Rosina (Elina Garanca), Jose Manuel Zapata (Almaviva) and Franco Vassallo (Figaro). At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera, Lincoln Center, (212) 362- 6000, metopera.org; $15 to $375. (Holland)'MANON LESCAUT' (Wednesday) The Met has dusted off its drearily realistic 1980 production for one reason: Karita Mattila. This charismatic Finnish soprano, in splendid voice, gives a riveting portrayal of the title role, singing with the requisite richness and power, yet conveying the girlish awkwardness of this coy young woman, whose romantic impulsiveness and weakness for finery lead to exile and death. The tenor Marcello Giordani may bring stylish Italianate ardor to his portrayal of Manon's lover, the Chevalier des Grieux, but his singing is overly emotive, sometimes sloppy and blatant. Donald Runnicles conducts an intricate, lucid and lyrical account of Puccini's breakthrough score. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $375.(Anthony Tommasini)'OTELLO' (Friday and Monday) The title role in Verdi's "Otello" is one of the great vocal and acting challenges for a tenor in the Italian repertory. The acclaimed South African tenor Johan Botha brings abundant power, rich tone, confident delivery and lyrical elegance to the role, though over all his performance is dramatically bland. Reneé Fleming, singing Desdemona at the Met for the first time since 1995, gives a vulnerable, poignant and vocally classy performance. Carlo Guelfi is an idiomatic and intelligent though not particularly gripping Iago. Semyon Bychkov conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $375.(Tommasini)Classical MusicALFRED BRENDEL (Wednesday) In what may be this distinguished pianist's last New York recital, Mr. Brendel plays the music that defines him: Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven, then ending with Schubert's B flat Sonata. At 8 p.m, Stern Auditorium, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $33 to $112. (Holland)ENSEMBLE ACJW (Monday) It may be hard to remember the shorthand moniker of this chamber group made up of gifted postgraduate musicians from the new training academy jointly run by Carnegie Hall, the Juilliard School and the Weill Music Institute. But you are likely to remember the ensemble's concerts, since the players are top-notch and the programming adventurous. Monday's program begins with a solo piano piece, Debussy's "Estampes," and ends with Ravel's incandescent Piano Trio. In between are three enticing contemporary works by Angel Lam, Colin McPhee and Christopher Adler. At 7 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $15. (Tommasini) JUILLIARD ORCHESTRA (Monday) The accomplished Juilliard Orchestra offers a colorful program under the baton of Emmanuel Villaume, including Strauss's "Don Juan"; "Royal Hunt" and "Storm" from Berlioz's "Troyens"; "La Mer" by Debussy; and a percussion concerto by the Norwegian composer Rolf Wallin, with Tomoya Aomori as soloist. At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $10 to $20; free for students and 65+. (Schweitzer)TON KOOPMAN (Sunday) With the Orchestra of St. Luke's and the Ton Koopman Young Artists Choir, this Dutch organist and conductor is leading a choral workshop that includes this performance of two big Handel works, the "Ode for St. Cecilia's Day" and the "Dettingen" Te Deum. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $15. (Allan Kozinn)STEPHEN KOVACEVICH (Thursday) This well-regarded pianist pays a visit to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, playing Schumann's "Kinderszenen," the Bach Partita in D and then Beethoven's celebrated "Diabelli" Variations. At 8 p.m., the Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949; $45. (Holland)MANHATTAN SCHOOL OF MUSIC CHAMBER SINFONIA (Saturday) During one of several concerts honoring this school's 90th anniversary, the Chamber Sinfonia will play Mozart and Vivaldi, conducted by Pinchas Zukerman, who will also perform on viola. He will be joined by the fine violinist Viviane Hagner for Mozart's Sinfonia Concertante in E flat (K. 364), and by violinists for whom he has been a mentor for Vivaldi's Concerto in B minor for four violins. The program also includes Mozart's Symphony No. 36. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $20. (Schweitzer)MANNES ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) The orchestras of New York's music schools all have a chance to show their mettle this week. On Tuesday it's the turn of the Mannes Orchestra, which will be joined by the pianist Vladimir Feltsman for Bach's Keyboard Concerto in F minor (BWV 1056). The program also includes Schnittke's Piano Concerto and Jennifer Higdon's colorful Concerto for Orchestra. As an added bonus, the concert, conducted by David Hayes, is free, though tickets are required. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org. (Schweitzer)MEREDITH MONK (Friday and Thursday) On Friday this prolific composer and singer leads her ensemble in a program that promises to draw on both her classic works and newly composed scores. At the second concert in her series, on Thursday, two members of her group — John Hellenbeck, a percussionist, and Theo Bleckmann, a vocalist — offer works of their own. Friday at 8 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $25 to $35. (Kozinn)★ MET ORCHESTRA (Sunday) After 60 years before the public, the eminent Austrian pianist Alfred Brendel is retiring from the concert stage. The first of his two final appearances in New York will be as soloist with James Levine and the Met Orchestra in Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 24 in C minor. (He plays a recital at Carnegie Hall on Tuesday night.) Mr. Levine has placed this work on the program in between two contrasting touchstones  from the Second Viennese School: Webern's Six Pieces for Orchestra and Berg's Three Pieces for Orchestra. The program ends in a smoldering blaze with the final scene of Strauss's "Salome" with the incomparable dramatic soprano Deborah Voigt. At 3 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $48 to $162. (Tommasini)ST. LOUIS SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Friday and Saturday) It's hard to single out the biggest draw in David Robertson's two programs with his fine St. Louis ensemble. Messiaen's mammoth "Turangalila" Symphony is performed so infrequently that no opportunity should be missed. Nicolas Hodges is the piano soloist, and Cynthia Millar is playing the ondes Martenot in the Friday night performance, which includes a discussion and multimedia. On Saturday Mr. Robertson leads the New York premiere of John Adams's "Doctor Atomic" Symphony: obviously a contender, but it's a consolation prize as New Yorkers await the opera itself. Rivaling it here as a favorite is the Berg Violin Concerto, which Christian Tetzlaff has played breathtakingly in recent seasons. The program also includes Brahms's "Tragic Overture" and Sibelius's "Tapiola." At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $10 to $35 on Friday, $26 to $88 on Saturday. (Kozinn)STATE SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA OF MEXICO (Sunday) Enrique Bátiz and his orchestra make their first New York appearance with a program that includes Bernstein's "Candide" Overture, Carlos Chávez's Second Symphony (the "Sinfonía India"), the Sibelius Second Symphony and the world's most popular guitar concerto, Rodrigo's "Concierto de Aranjuez," with Alfonso Moreno as the soloist. At 3 p.m., Lehman Center for the Performing Arts, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, at Goulden Avenue, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 960-8833, lehmancenter.org; $10 to $25. (Kozinn)TAKACS QUARTET (Thursday) This exemplary string quartet, with four distinctive voices, always offers striking insights into the repertory. Here it performs Haydn's Quartet in F (Op. 74, No. 2), Bartok's Quartet No. 5 and Brahms's Quartet in A minor. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $48 to $54. (Schweitzer)CHRISTIAN ZACHARIAS. (Wednesday) Mr. Zacharias is spending quality time in New York this season. Here he plays Schumann's "Kinderszenen" (a work of choice this week — see Stephen Kovacevec at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Saturday), Beethoven's early E flat Sonata (Op. 7), and then picks and chooses from Domenico Scarlatti's short, brilliant and multitudinous keyboard sonatas. At 8 p.m., Rose Theater, Broadway and 60th Street, (212) 721-6500; $30 to $60. (Holland)When the historical progression from Haydn to Mahler began to run out of options at the end of the 19th century, composers could either follow new trains of thought issuing from old ideas, or else declare bankruptcy and start all over again. For better or worse Schoenberg, Elliott Carter and the like have led classical music along a rational path into a smaller, perhaps finer world. A separation of the classes has been ensured: a knowing listening elite kept at a distance from an all-inclusive, less discriminating populace at large.Musical reinvention emigrated to South America, where popular song and dance have achieved levels of subtlety rendering class warfare meaningless. The Brazilian composer Heitor Villa-Lobos acts as a patron saint on the continent, and his music was celebrated at Zankel Hall on Saturday night.Villa-Lobos, who was born in 1887 and died in 1959, had the accouterments of European education but also the courage to invest them in the undeveloped property around him. There remains something of his music in the songs of Caetano Veloso, the tangos of Astor Piazzolla and the concert pieces of Osvaldo Golijov or Alberto Ginastera.Saturday's program, presided over by the pianist Marcelo Bratke, mixed piano music and songs by Villa-Lobos and others, with Dori Caymmi singing gently into a microphone and playing the guitar. The nine "Children and Brazilian Stories" played by Mr. Bratke at the start were best of all, offering hints of wildness, yet with elegant construction, subtle rhythmic dislocations and shining piano colors. Villa-Lobos gets his hands dirty and is fastidious at the same time.Later Mr. Bratke played Bach's B-flat Partita, and by following it with one of Villa-Lobos's tributes to the Baroque, the "Bachianas Brasileiras" No. 4, he demonstrated, I am afraid, the prolixity and convolution to which the composer's enthusiasms sometimes led him. Simplicity worked best all night, especially in the three tiny songs of Claudio Santoro sung by the soprano Rosana Lamosa near the end.Ms. Lamosa, sounding a little faint in the famous "Bachianas Brasileiras" No. 5 earlier in the evening, was perfect within these smaller dimensions. Mr. Caymmi, a very good guitarist, sang in a gruff, sometimes uncertain baritone. Mr. Bratke is a fine and flexible pianist, perfectly happy either to play Bach or to plunge into the popular music he set next to it.Have you seen the Wikipedia entry on smooth jazz lately? Probably not, but it's a mess. The administrators have tagged almost every section with provisos: "Its neutrality is disputed"; "needs additional citations for verification"; "reads like an advertisement"; may contain "unverified claims."Poor smooth jazz, besieged by haters. Being righteous about what's called traditional jazz is easy. Being righteous about smooth jazz is much more difficult. It is a commercial construct, a radio format more than a style of music. For 20 years it has appealed across race and class and gender, partly because it asks so little. It is a physical presence but an intellectual absence. It is an unverified claim.It lost ground last week when WQCD-FM, the New York radio station known as CD101.9 and the station with smooth jazz's biggest market share in the country, went off the air, replaced at 101.9 by the rock format WRXP. In related news, the saxophonist Kenny G — the regent of the smoothiverse, a man who at his height moved 15 million copies of just one album ("Breathless," from 1992) — has been selling fewer records lately. Well, so has everyone. But as a consequence he now plays where actual jazz performers play, like the Rose Theater at Jazz at Lincoln Center, where he appeared on Tuesday.The concert was an outside rental and not a production of Jazz at Lincoln Center itself, but there was still a paradox in there somewhere. The organization has effortfully formed definitions of what jazz is and is not, and Kenny Gorelick,  one assumes, is a boldface Not.Curly-locked and slim-hipped, he made his customary entrance, playing and walking through the audience. As he approached a small stage in the front rows, he halted a slow ballad to hold a single note, by circular breathing, for several minutes, shaking hands with the audience along the way. In 1997 he set a  Guinness world record for longest saxophone note — 45 minutes 47 seconds — so this bit is now a running joke. "Still going ..." flashed the screen above the stage. "Still going ..." He held the note with the same feathery authority that he plays everything, and the tremendously long note had no emotional or narrative connection to the song itself.Kenny G is a dull but wickedly consistent musician: automatic with his tremulous phrasing and canned licks, which formed fast, organized roils during his unaccompanied solos; melismatic purrings of the melody on ballads; and gospel phrases in R&B songs. He was strangely unobtrusive, letting his band provide most of the excitement. His stage persona is the gifted California optimist, a good-time bro unencumbered by history.His new album, "Rhythm & Romance" — released by Concord Records and Starbucks — is his first Latin record, with traces of bossa nova, samba, salsa and Peruvian lando. You can't really fault him for exoticism. That's for adults. His show seemed more aimed at children.When he began the first notes of "Havana," from an older record, the screen read: "Havana: ha-VAN-a, n.: A city of rhythm and romance," then showed pictures of palm trees and tropical fish. He made much of his new album, which in contrast to his past records features much of his own writing. But he didn't evince his own connection to Latin music. Introducing his new single, the mild boogaloo "Sax-O-Loco," he gave seven words of exegesis: "This is a very fun, happy song."His band played the new music with assurance; the percussionist Ron Powell and the bassist Vail Johnson gave it teeth by playing athletically on feature solos. The band did the right thing by hiring two excellent local percussionists, Pedro Martinez and Johnny Rivero, to give the rhythm more depth, form and, I guess, authenticity, but it didn't make it mean much.Record of the Year: "Rehab," Amy WinehouseAlbum of the Year: "River: The Joni Letters," Herbie HancockSong of the Year: "Rehab," Amy Winehouse, songwriter and performerNew Artist: Amy WinehouseFemale Pop Vocal: "Rehab," Amy WinehouseMale Pop Vocal: "What Goes Around ... Comes Around," Justin TimberlakeDuo or Group Pop Vocal: "Makes Me Wonder," Maroon 5Pop Collaboration With Vocals: "Gone Gone Gone (Done Moved On)," Robert Plant and Alison KraussPop Instrumental Performance: "One Week Last Summer," Joni MitchellPop Instrumental Album: "The Mix-Up," Beastie BoysPop Vocal Album: "Back to Black," Amy WinehouseDance Recording: "LoveStoned/I Think She Knows," Justin TimberlakeElectronic/Dance Album: "We Are the Night," the Chemical BrothersTraditional Pop Vocal Album: "Call Me Irresponsible," Michael BubléSolo Rock Vocal: "Radio Nowhere," Bruce SpringsteenDuo or Group Rock Vocal: "Icky Thump," the White StripesHard Rock Performance: "The Pretender," Foo FightersMetal Performance: "Final Six," SlayerRock Instrumental Performance: Bruce Springsteen, "Once Upon a Time in the West"Rock Song: "Radio Nowhere," Bruce Springsteen, songwriter and performerRock Album: "Echoes, Silence, Patience & Grace," Foo FightersAlternative Album: "Icky Thump," the White StripesR&B Female Vocal: "No One," Alicia KeysR&B Male Vocal: "Future Baby Mama," PrinceDuo or Group R&B Vocal: "Disrespectful," Chaka Khan featuring Mary J. BligeR&B Song: "No One," Dirty Harry, Kerry Brothers and Alicia Keys, songwriters; Alicia Keys, performerR&B Album: "Funk This," Chaka KhanContemporary R&B Album: "Because of You," Ne-YoRap Solo Performance: "Stronger," Kanye WestRap Duo or Group Performance: "Southside," Common featuring Kanye WestRap/Sung Collaboration: "Umbrella," Rihanna featuring Jay-ZRap Song: "Good Life," Aldrin Davis, Mike Dean, Faheem Najm, Kanye West, James Ingram and Quincy Jones, songwriters; Kanye West, performer, featuring T-PainRap Album: "Graduation," Kanye WestFemale Country Vocal: "Before He Cheats," Carrie UnderwoodMale Country Vocal: "Stupid Boy," Keith UrbanCountry Duo or Group Vocal: "How Long," EaglesCountry Song: "Before He Cheats," Josh Kear and Chris Tompkins, songwriters; Carrie Underwood, performerCountry Album: "These Days," Vince GillBluegrass Album: "The Bluegrass Diaries," Jim LauderdaleContemporary Jazz Album: "River: The Joni Letters," Herbie HancockJazz Vocal Album: "Avant Gershwin," Patti AustinLatin Jazz Album: "Funk Tango," Paquito D'Rivera QuintetGospel Song: "Blessed & Highly Favored," Karen Clark-Sheard, songwriter; the Clark Sisters, performersPop/Contemporary Gospel Album: "A Deeper Level," Israel and New BreedSouthern, Country or Bluegrass Gospel Album: "Salt of the Earth," Ricky Skaggs and the WhitesTraditional Gospel Album: "Live — One Last Time," the Clark SistersContemporary R&B Gospel Album: "Free to Worship," Fred HammondLatin Pop Album: "El Tren de los Momentos," Alejandro SanzLatin Rock or Alternative Album: "No Hay Espacio," Black:GuayabaLatin Urban Album: "Residente o Visitante," Calle 13Tropical Latin Album: "La Llave de Mi Corazón," Juan Luis GuerraContemporary Blues Album: "The Road to Escondido," J J Cale and Eric ClaptonTraditional Folk Album: "Dirt Farmer," Levon HelmContemporary Folk/Americana Album: "Washington Square Serenade," Steve EarleReggae Album: "Mind Control," Stephen MarleyTraditional World Music Album: "African Spirit," Soweto Gospel ChoirContemporary World Music Album: "Djin Djin," Angelique KidjoPolka Album: "Come Share the Wine," Jimmy Sturr and His OrchestraSpoken Word Album: "The Audacity of Hope," Barack ObamaMusical Show Album: "Spring Awakening"Compilation Soundtrack Album: "Love"LOS ANGELES — Amy Winehouse, the troubled British soul singer with the darkly self-referential hit "Rehab," failed to attend Sunday's 50th annual Grammy Awards in person, but she proved a dominating figure nonetheless, picking up five trophies as voters kept her in a tight competition with the rap star Kanye West.Both of them, however, were left on the sidelines for the night's final prize, album of the year, which went to the jazz mainstay Herbie Hancock.Ms. Winehouse won awards in two of the three most prestigious categories, for the writing and recording of the single "Rehab," about her refusal to seek treatment for substance abuse. She performed on the program via satellite from London, where her tabloid-ready lifestyle recently prompted her to enter a rehabilitation center.Looking stunned and strangely sad as she learned she had won for record of the year, she thanked her record label, her parents and "my Blake, my Blake incarcerated," referring to Blake Fielder-Civil, her husband, who has been jailed for his involvement in a pub brawl.Ms. Winehouse also won for best new artist, best female pop vocal performance for "Rehab" and best pop vocal album for her CD "Back to Black."Ms. Winehouse, who earned acclaim for her retro-tinged musical style, found herself facing a challenge for the top awards from Mr. West, the innovative Chicago rapper who had twice before been nominated for album of the year and told viewers he considered the Grammy Awards his "new place of residence." Mr. West ended up with four awards.Even the typically confident Mr. West, whose "Graduation" was named best rap album, offered a nod to the uncertainty when he took the stage for the award, telling Ms. Winehouse's producer, Mark Ronson, that if she won for album of the year: "You deserve it just as much as me. I deserve it too."But both of them were upstaged in the album of the year category by Mr. Hancock, who appeared surprised as he accepted the award for his tribute to Joni Mitchell, "River: The Joni Letters," which featured artists including Corinne Bailey Rae and Norah Jones offering gentle renditions of Ms. Mitchell's songs. The album's unexpected victory represents the first time in 43 years that a jazz album has won the album of the year prize. "What a beautiful day this is in Los Angeles!" Mr. Hancock, a favorite of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences who had won 10 Grammy trophies before Sunday, said as he took the stage.Though the choice of Mr. Hancock may stoke criticism that Grammy voters are out of step with pop music's cutting edge, the decision was defended backstage. Vince Gill, the country superstar who lost out to Mr. Hancock in the album of the year field, said Mr. Hancock was "hands-down a better musician than all of us put together." Neil Portnow, the president of the academy, which bestows the awards, disputed characterizations of Mr. Hancock as irrelevant, saying the competition is based on excellence, not sales. And Mr. Hancock himself asked: "What's conservative about me? I mean, the way I dress?"For her part, Ms. Winehouse staked her claim to Grammy glory with a lively performance — an unusually unpredictable moment in the heavily scripted Grammy program — that was beamed in from London. Ms. Winehouse, who left a rehabilitation center to rehearse, appeared in a short black dress and her signature beehive. She coyly looked into the camera and shook her hips as she performed two songs that seemed unfortunately apt, "You Know I'm No Good" and "Rehab," which drew explosive applause from her audience.But her virtual appearance wasn't the only one that seemed slightly haunted. The live broadcast began with a spectral duet that found the R&B queen Alicia Keys trading verses with Frank Sinatra, shown on a screen above the stage,  on Sinatra's 1955 hit "Learnin' the Blues." The performance, which evoked Natalie Cole's duet with a video of her father, Nat King Cole, on the 1992 Grammy telecast, set the tone for a show that tried to unite profoundly disparate eras and musical talents while squeezing in the modern stars who draw television ratings.Even Prince, who knows a few things about showy entrances, took note of the unusual pairing: "Frank Sinatra looked pretty good for 150, didn't he?" Prince asked an appreciative audience as he presented the evening's first trophy, for best female R&B performance, to Ms. Keys, for her single "No One."In the flesh, however, came a series of performances that reflected the overt nostalgia of the academy but added the flash of current stars. Rihanna appeared, seeming at ease as she fronted a version of the Time, the 1980s funk act that formed and disintegrated before she was born, in a flashy run-through of her hits "Umbrella" and "Don't Stop the Music." Beyoncé teamed with Tina Turner, who wore a silver bustier and pantsuit that partially concealed her famous legs, for a duet of "Proud Mary."And in an elaborate tribute to the Beatles, the acrobatic cast of the Cirque du Soleil production "Love" performed "A Day in the Life" before the performers from the Julie Taymor-directed film musical "Across the Universe" sang "Let It Be" on a full stage under glowing circular peace signs. Minutes later, when "Love" won the Grammy for best compilation soundtrack album, Ringo Starr, accepting the award with the Beatles' musical partner George Martin, described Cirque du Soleil's surreal interpretations of the band's music as "a beautiful dream."But the reverent feel of the evening was disrupted by the electrifying arrival of Mr. West, who emerged on a darkened stage, backed by a row of pink flames and standing at the base of a metallic pyramid — a clue that dance music fans instantly recognized as the stage production of Daft Punk, the French electronic duo whose music was sampled in Mr. West's hit song "Stronger." Mr. West, wearing glasses that appeared to glow in the dark, prowled a runway toward the crowd as he raced through the song, then shifted gears for a mostly a cappella performance of "Hey Mama," a song from his second album, in honor of his mother, who died last November after undergoing a cosmetic procedure.Later, when Mr. West won the best rap album award for "Graduation," he talked about the album as a sign of hip-hop's continuing vitality and, addressing his mother, said, "I know you're really proud of me right now, and I know you wouldn't want me to stop."Other winners included the country star Vince Gill, who won for best country album, a trophy he received from the hands of Mr. Starr. Noting that he had been given an award by a Beatle, Mr. Gill asked, "Have you had that happen yet, Kanye?"The rock stalwarts the Foo Fighters won two awards, for best rock album for their sixth studio album, "Echoes, Silence, Patience & Grace," and best hard rock performance for their hit song "The Pretender," which they performed live on an outdoor stage next the Staples Center, accompanied by an orchestra that featured winners of a contest on YouTube.Bruce Springsteen, whose album "Magic" had been considered a contender for album of the year but was not nominated in that category, won three awards in lower-profile categories before the telecast. Justin Timberlake, who has continued to score hits with singles from an album that competed in last year's ceremony, won two awards. Carrie Underwood's song "Before He Cheats" also picked up two awards: one for its songwriters, Josh Kear and Chris Tompkins, and one for Ms. Underwood for best female country vocal.The academy distributed trophies in 110 categories, though only 11 were given out during the CBS broadcast. (This year's voting covered recordings released from Oct. 1, 2006, to Sept. 30, 2007.) The rest  were handed out at a separate three-hour event in the convention center next to the Staples Center immediately before the telecast.There Barack Obama, in a contest that offered bragging rights but no delegates, defeated Bill Clinton in the category of Best Spoken Word Album with his audiobook "The Audacity of Hope." (Alex Conant, a Republican Party spokesman, said in a statement that "glowing Hollywood endorsements and awards won't translate into votes this fall.")The producers of the Grammy Awards had hoped that the show's lineup of stars and an unusually comprehensive marketing campaign would build on a turnaround in ratings that began last year, when the show improved 18 percent over what had been a record low the year before.But the weeks leading up to this year's show, in which Mr. West was up for a leading eight nominations, mainly cast a spotlight on the industry's deep troubles. Last week the top seller on the Billboard 200 album chart, Ms. Keys's "As I Am," sold just 61,000 copies, barely above the record low for a No. 1 album.COMEDYDIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts Uncle Floyd, stand-up. Feb. 16 at 7:30 p.m. $15. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org.PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts "Capitol Steps Comedy Show," political comedy. Friday at 7 p.m. $25 to $45. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; www.patchoguetheatre.com.FILMBAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts "Breakfast at Tiffany's," starring Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. $10. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.com.EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall "The Way I Spent the End of the World," directed by Catalin Mitulescu; Romanian with English subtitles. Feb. 10 at 7 p.m. Free. "Mother of Mine," directed by Klaus Haro; Finnish and Swedish with English subtitles. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Free. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050; www.guildhall.org.WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center "Man in the Chair," comedy directed by Michael Schroeder. Through Feb. 10. $3 to $10. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; www.whbpac.org.FOR CHILDRENBELLMORE The Show Place "Schoolhouse Rock Live!" Musical presented by Plaza Theatrical Productions. Through Feb. 16. $10. The Show Place, 222 Pettit Avenue. (516) 599-6870; www.plazatheatrical.com.CAPTREE ISLAND Fire Island Lighthouse Preservation Society "Presidents Week at the Fire Island Lighthouse," special events for children and families, including story time, nature walks and scavenger hunts. Feb. 18 through 22. $4 and $6. Fire Island Lighthouse Preservation Society, 4640 Captree Island. (631) 661-4876.DIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts "Deceptions: An Afternoon of Magic and Illusions," featuring Scott Interrante. Feb. 23 at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. $5 and $10. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org.EAST ISLIP BayWay Arts Center "Cinderella," presented by the Children's Theater. Through March 1. $8. BayWay Arts Center, 265 East Main Street. (631) 581-2700; www.broadhollow.org.ELMONT BroadHollow Theater "Aesop's Fables," a storytelling play teaching the magic and morals of seven of Aesop's fables. Feb. 19 at 1 p.m. $9. BroadHollow Theater, 700 Hempstead Turnpike. (631) 581-2700; www.broadhollow.org.GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum "Little Red Riding Hood," musical adaptation by Kevin M. Reese. Ages 3 and up. Through Feb. 10. $3 and $6. "From the Heart," Broadway 101 for Kids presents songs from classic shows. Ages 3 and up. Feb. 16 at 1 and 3 p.m. $3 to $6. "Blue Man Group: Making Waves," an exhibition of sound and light guided by the Blue Men. Through May 4. $8 and $9. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. (516) 224-5800; www.licm.org.KINGS PARK Nissequogue River State Park "Take a Bird to Lunch," bird feeder-making. Feb. 10, 10:30 a.m. to noon. $2 and $3. "Planet Fun," an imaginary visit to each planet in our solar system followed by arts and crafts. Feb. 21, 2 to 3:30 p.m. $2 and $3. Nissequogue River State Park, St. Johnland Road. (631) 269-4927.LATTINGTOWN Bailey Arboretum "Who Goes There?" Discover who lives in the forest by finding the footprints left behind. Feb. 10 at 2 p.m. Free. Bailey Arboretum, 194 Bayville Road. (516) 571-8020.LINDENHURST Studio Theater "The Wizard of Oz," musical presented by the Children's Theater. Through March 1. $8. Studio Theater, 141 South Wellwood Avenue. (631) 581-2700.LONG BEACH Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center "Giants of the Sea." Explore the lives of whales, dolphins and porpoises through activities, games and crafts. Feb. 20, 10:30 a.m. to noon. $3. Lunar eclipse viewing. Feb. 20, 8 to 9:30 p.m. $3. "Sea Otters in the Kelp Forest." Explore the undersea forest, and the plants and animals that live with sea otters. Feb. 21, 10:30 a.m. to noon. $3. "Manatees Not Mermaids." Learn about these animals that live in the warm waters of the South. Feb. 22, 1:30 to 3 p.m. $3. Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center, Ocean Parkway. (516) 679-7254.OAKDALE CM Performing Arts Center "The Tale of Peter Rabbit," theatrical performance presented by the Children's Theater. Feb. 23 through March 15. $9. CM Performing Arts Center, 931 Montauk Highway. (631) 218-2810; www.cmpac.com.OAKDALE Connetquot River State Park "Weather Wizards." Uncover weather secrets with hands-on demonstrations and activities. Feb. 20, 1:30 to 3 p.m. $2 and $3. "Flying Feathers." Discover the world of birds with an indoor program followed by an outdoor walk. Feb. 22, 9:30 to 11 a.m. $2 and $3. Connetquot River State Park, Sunrise Highway. (631) 581-1005.PLAINVIEW Mid-Island Y Jewish Community Center "Magic With Mark and Kym," presented by MES Magical Productions. Ages 3 and up. Feb. 10 at 2 p.m. $4 to $8. Mid-Island Y Jewish Community Center, 45 Manetto Hill Road. (516) 822-3535.PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three "Humpty Dumpty and Company," a performance with puppets and live actors. Through Monday. $8. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; www.theatrethree.com.RIVERHEAD Long Island Science Center "Chinese New Year." Learn to tell your fortune with sticks and to add with an abacus, and learn about science inventions from China. Feb. 10, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. $2 and $5. "Cool Jazz and Hot Chocolate." Learn to create sounds and to make your own instrument. Feb. 16, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. $2 and $5. "Chocolate Frenzy." Learn how chocolate is made, sample some hot chocolate and make some chocolate clay. Feb. 19 through  24. $2 and $5. Long Island Science Center, 11 West Main Street. (631) 208-8000; www.lisciencecenter.org.SMITHTOWN Caleb Smith State Park Preserve "Arctic Adventures." Conduct experiments and learn what it's like to live in an extreme environment. Feb. 20, 10 to 11:30 a.m. $2 and $3. "Ocean Explorers." Learn about the ocean's inhabitants, followed by arts and crafts. Feb. 21, 10 to 11:30 a.m. $2 and $3. "Roaming the Rainforest." Explore the sights and sounds of a tropical rainforest. Feb. 22, 10 to 11:30 a.m. $2 and $3. Caleb Smith State Park Preserve, Jericho Turnpike. (631) 265-1054.MUSIC AND DANCEBROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts  "Tellin' on the Downbeat," featuring Charlotte Blake Alston and the John Blake Jr. Jazz Quartet. Feb. 16 at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. $20.  Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; www.tillescenter.org.CENTERPORT Congregational Church of Huntington Danielle Miraglia, blues guitarist. Feb. 16 at 7:30 p.m. $7 and $10. Congregational Church of Huntington, 30 Washington Drive. (631) 425-2925.DIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts "Creative Cabaret," featuring Scott Ballin, pianist. Wednesday at 5 p.m. Free. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org.HOLBROOK Sachem Public Library The Devotions, doo-wop band. Feb. 17 at 2 p.m. Free. Sachem Public Library, 150 Holbrook Library. (631) 588-5024.LONG BEACH Long Beach Public Library "Love in Any Language," musical performance by Cantor David Katz, featuring love songs from different cultures. Feb. 10 at 3 p.m. Free. Long Beach Public Library, 111 West Park Avenue. (516) 432-7201.MELVILLE St. Elizabeth's Church  "Mid-Winter Musical Journey," featuring the Masterworks Chorus and Orchestra performing works by four living Long Island composers. Friday at 8 p.m. $15 and $25. St. Elizabeth Church, 175 Wolf Hill Road. (631) 262-0200.OLD WESTBURY Salten Hall Valentine's Day Jazz Brunch, featuring music by Al Cardillo and Friends. Feb. 10 at 11:30 a.m. $29. "Great Sounds of Jazz," performance by Giovanni Von Essen, jazz soloist. Feb. 24, 3 to 5 p.m. Free. Salten Hall, New York Institute of Technology, Old Westbury Campus, Northern Boulevard. (516) 686-7640.PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts "Long Island Composer Alliance Concert," premieres by local artists. Feb. 17 at 3 p.m. $12 and $15. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; www.patchoguetheatre.com.RIVERHEAD Riverhead Free Library Piano Plus Concert Series, featuring David Aaron Carpenter, violinist, with Tatiana Goncharova, pianist. Feb. 10 at 2 p.m. $15. Riverhead Free Library, 330 Court Street. (631) 369-2171.STONY BROOK University Cafe "Pre-St. Valentine's Day Massacre Show," featuring the singer-songwriter John Wesley Harding, modern folk. Feb. 10 at 2 p.m. $18 and $22. University Cafe, Stony Brook Union Building, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-1093.WESTBURY North Fork Theater The Commodores, R & B and soul. Feb. 17 at 8 p.m. $51.50 to $61.50. North Fork Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800; www.livenation.com.OUTDOORSCAPTREE ISLAND Fire Island Lighthouse Preservation Society "Lighthouses Are for Lovers," climb the tower and enjoy refreshments served at sunset on the terrace. Feb. 16, 4 to 6 p.m. $25 per couple. Fire Island Lighthouse Preservation Society, 4640 Captree Island. (631) 661-4876; www.fireislandlighthouse.com.HUNTINGTON Caumsett State Historic Park "Just a Hike," a slow- to moderately paced five-mile hike. Feb. 17, 1 to 3 p.m. $2 and $3. Caumsett State Historic Park, 25 Lloyd Harbor Road. (631) 423-1770.LONG BEACH Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center Lunar eclipse viewing. Feb. 20, 8 to 9:30 p.m. $3. Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center, Ocean Parkway. (516) 679-7254.WESTHAMPTON BEACH Cupsogue Beach County Park Cupsogue Beach County Park Seal walks with the Coastal Research and Education Society of Long Island. Feb. 17 through May. 4. $5 suggested donation. Cupsogue Beach County Park, Dune Road. (631) 244-3352; www.cresli.org.THEATERBAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts "Little Women," adapted for the stage by Thomas Hischak. Feb. 10 at 2 p.m. $8. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.com.BRENTWOOD Brentwood Presbyterian Church "Carefully Taught," an original one-act play that uses music, dance and satire to explore the effects of domestic violence, by Godsongs Group Productions. Thursday through Feb. 16. $4 and $6. Brentwood Presbyterian Church, 125 Second Street. (631) 398-1191.EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Main Stage Theater "Broadway Bound," comedy. Through Feb. 29. $18 and $22. Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org.EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall Staged reading of Mae West's "Sex."  Presented by the Naked Stage. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050; www.guildhall.org.ELMONT BroadHollow Theater "Regrets Only," dramatic comedy. Through Feb. 24. $14 to $22. BroadHollow Theater, 700 Hempstead Turnpike. (631) 581-2700; www.broadhollow.org.LINDENHURST Studio Theater "Regrets Only," dramatic comedy. Through Feb. 24. $14 to $22. Studio Theater, 141 South Wellwood Avenue. (631) 581-2700.PATCHOGUE  Clare Rose Playhouse "Violet," a musical about a young woman's pilgrimage across America. Feb. 22 through March 9. $12 and $14. Clare Rose Playhouse, 155 West Roe Boulevard. (631) 654-0199; www.sjcny.edu.PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three "Almost Heaven: The Songs of John Denver," musical. Feb. 16 through March 22. $21. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; www.theaterthree.com.SPOKEN WORDEAST HAMPTON "African-American Expressions," artists' lecture on their work and lives. Feb. 17, 1 to 4 p.m. Free. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050; www.guildhall.org.MASSAPEQUA PARK Massapequa Public Library Book discussion of "The Camel Club," by David Balducci. Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. Free. Massapequa Public Library, 40 Harbor Lane. (516) 799-0770.A selected look at the winners and nominees for the 50th annual Grammy Awards. denotes the winning nominee in each category.Record of the Year"Irreplaceable," Beyoncé "The Pretender," Foo Fighters "Umbrella," Rihanna Featuring Jay-Z"What Goes Around…Comes Around," Justin Timberlake "Rehab," Amy WinehouseAlbum of the Year"Echoes, Silence, Patience & Grace," Foo Fighters  "These Days," Vince Gill"River: The Joni Letters," Herbie Hancock "Graduation," Kanye West"Back to Black," Amy WinehouseSong of the Year"Before He Cheats," Josh Kear & Chris Tompkins, songwriters (Carrie Underwood)   "Hey There Delilah," Tom Higgenson, songwriter (Plain White T's) "Like A Star," Corinne Bailey Rae, songwriter (Corinne Bailey Rae) "Rehab," Amy Winehouse, songwriter (Amy Winehouse) "Umbrella," Shawn Carter, Kuk Harrell, Terius "Dream" Nash & Christopher Stewart,songwriters (Rihanna Featuring Jay-Z)Best New ArtistFeist LedisiParamoreTaylor SwiftAmy WinehouseBest Female Pop Vocal Performance"Candyman," Christina Aguilera   "1234," Feist "Big Girls Don't Cry," Fergie "Say It Right," Nelly Furtado "Rehab," Amy WinehouseBest Male Pop Vocal Performance"Everything,"  Michael Bublé    "Belief," John Mayer "Dance Tonight," Paul McCartney "Amazing," Seal "What Goes Around...Comes Around," Justin TimberlakeBest Pop Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals" (You Want To) Make A Memory," Bon Jovi   "Home," Daughtry "Makes Me Wonder," Maroon 5 "Hey There Delilah," Plain White T's "Window in the Skies," U2Best Pop Collaboration With Vocals" Steppin' Out," Tony Bennett & Christina Aguilera   "Beautiful Liar,"  Beyoncé & Shakira"Gone Gone Gone (Done Moved On),"  Robert Plant & Alison Krauss "The Sweet Escape,"  Gwen Stefani & Akon "Give It To Me,"  Timbaland Featuring Nelly Furtado & Justin TimberlakeBest Pop Vocal Album"Lost Highway," Bon Jovi   "The Reminder," Feist "It Won't Be Soon Before Long," Maroon 5 "Memory Almost Full," Paul McCartney "Back to Black," Amy WinehouseBest Solo Rock Vocal Performance"Timebomb," Beck   "Only Mama Knows," Paul McCartney "Our Country," John Mellencamp"Radio Nowhere," Bruce Springsteen "Come On," Lucinda WilliamsBest Rock Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals"It's Not Over," Daughtry   "Working Class Hero," Green Day "If Everyone Cared," Nickelback "Instant Karma," U2"Icky Thump," The White StripesBest Rock Song"Come On,"  Lucinda Williams, songwriter (Lucinda Williams)   "Icky Thump,"  Jack White, songwriter (The White Stripes) "It's Not Over," I Chris Daughtry, Gregg Wattenberg, Mark Wilkerson & Brett Young, songwriters (Daughtry) "The Pretender,"  Dave Grohl, Taylor Hawkins, Nate Mendel & Chris Shiflett, songwriters (FooFighters)"Radio Nowhere,"  Bruce Springsteen, songwriter (Bruce Springsteen)Best Rock Album"Daughtry," Daughtry   "Revival," John Fogerty "Echoes, Silence, Patience & Grace," Foo Fighters "Magic," Bruce Springsteen "Sky Blue Sky," WilcoBest Female R&B Vocal Performance "Just Fine," Mary J. Blige   "When I See You," Fantasia"No One," Alicia Keys "If I Have My Way," Chrisette Michele "Hate On Me," Jill ScottBest Male R&B Vocal Performance "Woman," Raheem DeVaughn   "B.U.D.D.Y.," Musiq Soulchild "Because of You," Ne-Yo"Future Baby Mama," Prince "Please Don't Go," TankBest R&B Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals  "Same Girl,"  R. Kelly Featuring Usher "Disrespectful,"  Chaka Khan Featuring Mary J. Blige "Hate That I Love You,"  Rihanna Featuring Ne-Yo "Baby," Angie Stone Featuring Betty Wright "Bartender,"  T-Pain Featuring AkonBest R&B Song  "Beautiful Flower,"  India.Arie & Joyce Simpson, songwriters (India.Arie)   "Hate That I Love You,"  Mikkel S. Eriksen, Tor Erik Hermansen & Shaffer Smith, songwriters (Rihanna Featuring Ne-Yo)"No One,"  Dirty Harry, Kerry Brothers & Alicia Keys, songwriters (Alicia Keys) "Teachme,"  Ivan Barias, Adam W. Blackstone, Randall C. Bowland, Carvin Haggins, Johnnie Smith II & Corey Latif Williams, songwriters (Musiq Soulchild) "When I See You,"  Louis Biancaniello, Waynne Nugent, Erika Nuri, Kevin Risto, Janet Sewel & Sam Watters, songwriters (Fantasia)Best R&B Album  "Funk This," Chaka Khan   "Lost & Found," Ledisi "Luvanmusiq," Musiq Soulchild "The Real Thing," Jill Scott "Sex, Love & Pain," TankBest Contemporary R&B Album  "Konvicted," Akon   "Just Like You," Keyshia Cole "Fantasia," Fantasia "East Side Story," Emily King"Because of You," Ne-YoBest Rap Album  "Finding Forever," Common"Kingdom Come," Jay-Z"Hip Hop Is Dead," Nas"T.I. vs T.I.P.," T.I."Graduation," Kanye WestScandals in Washington come and go, but Teapot Dome remains one of the real humdingers. In a scheme of breathtaking audacity  a handful of oil tycoons and corrupt government officials nearly managed to make away with a hefty percentage of the nation's petroleum reserves. It was, in the words of Thomas J. Walsh, the senator whose committee hearings blew the lid off the teapot, "the most stupendous piece of thievery known to our annals, or perhaps to those of any other country."This is a story that has it all — a Jazz Age background, a pleasure-loving president surrounded by booze and chorus girls, boomtown capitalists from the Wild West, conniving politicians, mysterious suicides and a glamorous star witness named Roxy. Laton McCartney, in "The Teapot Dome Scandal," duly notes all of the above, but in his pedestrian retelling of the affair somehow manages to turn pulp drama into a bureaucratic dossier.Granted, he faces an uphill climb. Teapot Dome is shorthand for a complex scheme involving multiple players moving a lot of shells at lightning speed. In brief, a coterie of oil barons, led by Harry F. Sinclair and Edward L. Doheny, bribed Albert B. Fall, the secretary of the interior under Warren G. Harding, to lease them Teapot Dome in Wyoming and two oil fields in California, all controlled by the Navy. Since Harding and Fall had, in effect, been installed by these same oilmen, the deal went smoothly.Senate investigators took years to figure it out. Mr. McCartney, who has written books on the Bechtel Corporation and the Oregon Trail, does his best to marshal the facts, sort out the intricacies of the plot and keep his extensive cast of characters in formation, but in the end it all proves too much for him.Signs of struggle appear about halfway through. Chapter-ending cliffhangers languish, never to be revisited until so late in the book that their impact has been nullified. Desperate cues to the reader begin to appear, as names proliferate, and characters previously introduced but long absent from the stage suddenly reappear."A brief refresher on Hays," Mr. McCartney writes, flagging the return of Will Hays, the venal chairman of the Republican National Committee and later Harding's postmaster general. "Let's take a moment for introductions here," he writes, as a new clump of miscreants moves front and center. Mr. McCartney is like a man herding cats.He has nothing new to say about the scandal, but he does have a certain zest for Teapot's sordid comedy and a rich appreciation of the characters involved. Intermittently, when not tangled up in the minutiae of the evolving scandal, he delivers fresh, arresting portraits of the main players, some of them lovable rogues, others beady-eyed scoundrels.Harding, a back-slapping bon vivant who preferred a good game of poker and a curvaceous blonde to the dull routine of the Oval Office, beams like the sun. Doheny, a rapacious brute, seduces press and public with a carefully cultivated persona that Mr. McCartney describes as a "kindly old Irish uncle with a twinkle in his eye and a good-luck gold piece hanging from his vest chain."Hays skulks and slithers. A wizened sourpuss, up to his elbows in dirty deals, he flies out to Hollywood like one of the winged monkeys from "The Wizard of Oz" after serving as postmaster general. There, as the studios' chief enforcer of morals, he created the Hays Code to censor risqué material in the movies."Life had been good to Will Hays, though he still looked like a weasel," Mr. McCartney writes.Virtually everyone involved in Teapot Dome was crooked, even the press. The owners of The Denver Post, after being tipped off by a disgruntled office worker that the interior secretary was giving away oil leases to his friends like "kisses at a wedding," sent their star reporter to delve into Sinclair and Teapot Dome. They then used the information for blackmail, extorting a cool million from their subject.Like most conspiracies, Teapot Dome unraveled because there were too many people involved and too many details to cover up. (Sinclair really should have known better than to spread the wealth around in traceable Liberty bonds.) The public learned all about it through Senate hearings that, in the words of one journalist, "had all the atmosphere of a murder trial, combined with the bated breath excitement of the opening of King Tut's tomb."Walsh, the relentless, incorruptible senator from Montana, eventually prevailed, no thanks to the government, which obstructed his every effort. In one of the great spectacles of the 20th century, the American people got to take a close look at how their public servants operated. And, it has to be said, they did not particularly care. Calvin Coolidge, ensconced as president after his fellow Republican Harding's sudden and timely death, won the 1924 election handily. The economy was recovering nicely, nearly anyone could buy a Ford, and happy music was in the air.This, perhaps, is the great lesson of Teapot Dome. No one suffered too much. Secretary Fall, whom Mr. McCartney erroneously credits as the inspiration for the term "fall guy," became the first cabinet member to be convicted of a felony  and died in disgrace. But the rest of the big fish made out fine. When you commit a crime, be sure to sign up the government as a partner.
