THE songwriting session was so fresh that the aroma of the evening's chicken wings still lingered. Behind the vast mixing board of a dimly lighted Manhattan recording studio, two producers and their co-writer greeted a record executive who had come to hear their work. With the press of a button, the room filled with sound: somber guitar arpeggios over a slow, sleek hip-hop beat, with layers of falsetto harmonies leading to a big, glittery, instantly memorable chorus. It was pure candy — sweetly melodic, but just funky enough to have a dance groove."I'm thinking Jennifer," the executive said. "It's perfect for Jennifer Hudson."As three more songs that had been written in the last 24 hours blared from enormous speakers, the producers sat calmly, waiting to hear which superstars their songs would be pitched to. But they weren't the Neptunes or Timbaland or Dr. Dre or anyone else ardent followers of the Top 40 would be likely to recognize. They were Tor Erik Hermansen and Mikkel S. Eriksen, wholesome-looking, milk-complexioned Norwegians who, despite having no public persona, have quickly become two of the most in-demand figures in pop music.Better known as Stargate, Mr. Hermansen and Mr. Eriksen have had an enviable string of hits since arriving in the United States two years ago, including Beyoncé's "Irreplaceable," Rihanna's "Unfaithful" and "So Sick" by Ne-Yo, a rising 24-year-old singer from Las Vegas who is a frequent co-writer. (Ne-Yo's new album, "Because of You," released Tuesday on Def Jam, includes two Stargate songs.) Add to those Lionel Richie's comeback single, "I Call It Love," and "Beautiful Liar," the steamy track by Beyoncé and Shakira, which shot to the top of the iTunes best-seller list when released in March. At a time when the music industry is starved for hits, Stargate has had repeated success with a relatively simple approach: sugary, lilting R&B in the Michael Jackson vein leavened with the kind of melody-rich European pop that paints everything in bright primary colors.More potential hits are in the works. The executive visiting them, Larry Jackson, senior vice president of A&R (artists and repertory) at J Records, confirmed that Ms. Hudson would be recording their song "Can't Stop the Rain." And the Stargate name is attached to many other "priority releases" — projects that record labels, managers and radio programmers are expecting to be the most popular and profitable."In the industry, their name recognition is as powerful as Timbaland's," said Jeff Rabhan, who manages Elliott Yamin, the "American Idol" alumnus whose self-titled new album has two Stargate tracks.But in this age of the superstar producer, Mr. Hermansen and Mr. Eriksen are an exception, and not just for their perky Scandinavian accents and the plain T-shirts and sweats that make them look like refugees from a college soccer team. Like the Brill Building songwriters of the 1950s and '60s, they are behind-the-scenes workaholics, preferring to spend their time in a cramped studio."We have the No. 1 record in the country for 10 weeks, but when we walk down the street no one knows who we are," said Mr. Hermansen, who like his partner is 34, shiny of scalp and beanstalk thin. "It's great."With no videos to shoot, no tour dates and no solo albums to record, they are able to devote themselves to writing and recording, and they churn out new songs with astonishing speed and regularity. While labels and artists frequently wait weeks or even months for a new song from a top producer, a typical Stargate workday yields two, three, four or more."A lot of American producers have a great difficulty with pop," said Barry Weiss, president of Jive Records, who recently hired Mr. Hermansen and Mr. Eriksen to work with Usher, Chris Brown and Joe. "But these guys were raised on pop. They grew up on Abba. They grew up on Boney M. Those influences lend themselves to them making very melodic pop records, with great hooks and choruses. You plug in the right top-line writer and you got one plus one equals three."Arriving at noon at their studio on West 25th Street six days a week — "We get Sundays off," Mr. Eriksen said — the men of Stargate keep the music industry's equivalent of banker's hours. Working in a modest room so crowded with recording gear that they spend much of their time toiling inches apart, Mr. Hermansen and Mr. Eriksen say they usually finish up by midnight or 1 a.m. — around the time many of their competitors might be beginning their own sessions.Life in a recording studio can be slow and numbingly repetitive, but on a recent afternoon Stargate was a blur of musical multitasking. After tweaking some instrumental tracks, the producers convened with a co-writer over lyrics to a new song, and recorded it a couple of hours later. On and off throughout the day, as one restaurant delivery after another came through the door — eggs and bacon, Chinese, burgers — they sketched out yet another tune and discussed their favorite topic: the pride and constant stimulation of working in the United States."We can be in the studio till 1 o'clock in the morning," Mr. Hermansen said, "and then we walk out on the street and right outside we meet the president of Atlantic Records and the head of A&R over at Def Jam. And we'll talk about projects — 'O.K., we'll come by your office tomorrow.' Then we'll be up there at 11 o'clock playing songs."Their work carries on a tradition of Scandinavian bubble-gum artistry that stretches from Abba to Max Martin, the Swedish mastermind behind the late-'90s heyday of Britney Spears, 'N Sync et al. But while Mr. Martin has lately been developing a  more rock-influenced sound in songs like Kelly Clarkson's "Since U Been Gone," Stargate has followed a lifelong love of the Michael Jackson-Prince school of R&B."In Europe we've only been hearing the biggest American hits," said Mr. Eriksen, the quieter of the two, who has a thin, blond goatee and moves in quick, precise jolts at the console, like a video-game virtuoso. "That's what we've been listening to and trying to measure up to."Formed a decade ago in Norway as a trio — the third member, Hallgeir Rustan, left two years ago because he did not want to come to America, and remains a producer in Norway — Stargate had its first successes in Britain, with dozens of singles by teen-pop acts like Blue, Atomic Kitten and Hear'Say reaching the Top 10. The three men remixed American hip-hop and R&B songs, sweetening them for European radio with layers of added melody. Soon they began to set their eyes on  a studio in New York."We knew that to make the records we really wanted to make, we had to go to America," said Mr. Eriksen.After some exploratory missions, they settled in New York in the spring of 2005. Work was slow at first until a chance meeting with Ne-Yo (whose real name is Shaffer Smith) in a hallway at Sony Music Studios on West 54th Street. "They told me they did R&B, and honestly I didn't believe them," Ne-Yo said.But he was impressed by their work, and on their first joint songwriting date they knocked out six songs, among them "So Sick," which was No. 1 for two weeks. Then came Ne-Yo's next hit, "Sexy Love," then Rihanna, then Beyoncé. ...In the usual Stargate M.O. — common in pop and hip-hop production — Mr. Hermansen and Mr. Eriksen create an instrumental backing track and then let a collaborator write the lyrics and vocal melody.For Ne-Yo, Stargate's strength has as much to do with the music it makes as the music it doesn't."You hear some tracks where the producer is absolutely trying to be the star," he said, "the way they do so much with the track that it's almost difficult to write — you can't find any space to put a song in there. But I never had a problem with these guys. They are the epitome of simple and to the point."For their recent writing session with Ne-Yo, in Studio D at Sony Music, Mr. Hermansen and Mr. Eriksen brought a CD with sketches of 11 songs. Scanning through it, Ne-Yo picked one midtempo track with sharp, resonant acoustic guitar — "That's nasty!" he said — and sat down with a notepad, playing the track on a loop while Mr. Hermansen and Mr. Eriksen sat for an interview a few feet away.After about 40 minutes, the singer leaped out of his seat. "I got it," he announced, and sang his brand-new verse and a chorus. Everyone agreed that the song was hot, and once Ne-Yo removed his heavy gold chains — to keep them from clanging while at the microphone — assumed their recording positions.In about two hours, they had finished a textbook Stargate song. Over a spare beat that would not be out of place in a vintage Run-D.M.C. track, the guitar laid out a palette of bright, bold chords and the weaving melody that remains a focal point throughout the song. Ne-Yo's vocal — recorded in a couple of takes, with layer upon layer of harmonies added in quick succession — was soft and soulful, climaxing in a chorus that, with a swell of synthesizers behind it, seemed to glow with neon. "No matter what I do," Ne-Yo sang, "I can't stop the rain."Stargate's speed is a big attraction to clients. The duo's unobtrusive production style is another, and cannily plays to the ego dynamics of pop stars: everybody wants a hit,  but nobody wants to be upstaged by the producer."Most pop, hip-hop and R&B producers," said Mr. Rabhan, the manager, "are so distinctive that their music becomes instantly recognizable and overshadows the artist. Stargate has really been able to make a footprint without making it all about them."But that footprint is often faint. While a song produced by Timbaland or the Neptunes is recognizable no matter who the artist is, the Stargate signature is more difficult to detect, because to some degree the duo's style is an adaptable method, not a specific sound."They're chameleons," said Steve Lunt, an A&R executive at Atlantic Records who last worked with Stargate on songs by the teenage singer Gia Farrell. "But if you put a bunch of Stargate songs together you will see the thread running through them."Mr. Hermansen and Mr. Eriksen dismiss the idea that their remarkable productivity might be helped by songwriting formulaics."There's a craft to any art form," Mr. Hermansen responded. "You have to master the craft, but at the same time you have to be creative within the format you're working in. We have a certain ...""... musical language, so to speak," said Mr. Eriksen, finishing his colleague's sentence as if picking up a verse. "You shouldn't be afraid of that either. Even though it might remind you of something else you shouldn't shy away from it. Because it's our expression."In the largely black milieu of R&B, Mr. Hermansen and Mr. Eriksen have gotten their share of double takes. More than once, they said, visitors to their studio have misdirected their obeisances to the people they meet at the door: the two black British men who are Stargate's managers.But there are a growing number of well-known white R&B producers, including Scott Storch, Mark Ronson and Jonathan Rotem, as well as performers like Justin Timberlake, Amy Winehouse and Robin Thicke (who is also a successful producer).What sets Stargate apart from producers black or white is its image. Or rather, the lack of one. The two do not stake their reputations on hip-hop authenticity;  Mr. Hermansen and Mr. Eriksen, who are both married and have young children, remain deliberately invisible and clean-cut. When a photographer was about to snap their picture, Mr. Eriksen carefully moved an empty beer bottle so it wouldn't appear in the shot. A laptop computer in their studio is set to Norwegian time, and they make it clear that the biggest draw of living in New York is the work."We're like players who just got off the bench and started scoring," Mr. Hermansen said.Beginning their recent studio date with Ne-Yo, they took their places behind the console, unloading discs and various devices from a backpack. A young member of Ne-Yo's entourage who was surfing the Internet on a studio computer caught Mr. Eriksen's eye and asked him if they have a MySpace page.Mr. Eriksen shook his head no."Why not?" the young man asked."Don't have time," Mr. Eriksen said, and began punching buttons at the mixing board.Amy Winehouse is a tease. The songs on her second album, "Back to Black" (Universal Republic), revive the sound of 1960s and 1970s soul with tales of plunging into temptation and toughing out the consequences. She drinks, she cheats, she falls for the wrong guys, she cries; she refuses rehab with a magnificently simple refrain, "I said no, no, no."But the way she delivers those songs is far less forthright. At the Highline Ballroom on Tuesday night, she treated them with a shifting blend of casualness and concentration, arbitrary improvisation and precise inflections. She connected with the songs only intermittently, though when she did, she made a listener want more.Ms. Winehouse is English, and British soul singing has always been at least once removed from its African-American sources. It doesn't have the foundation that American singers often get by singing in church, since British  singers are more likely to learn soul style from their record collections.Ms. Winehouse, 23, is also separated from the music she draws on by a generation or two. Soul is a vintage style for her, a retro choice. Her backup band, the Dap-Kings, included two male singers in dark suits doing synchronized dance moves. They made a sartorial contrast to Ms. Winehouse in her halter top, tattoos and low-cut jeans, occasionally pointing a finger or pouting to hint at an old soul pose.Ms. Winehouse has grown up on hip-hop's version of R&B, which chops the old dramatic arcs of soul and gospel into sound-bite hooks and showy, almost randomly applied slides and turns. Her voice glints with possibility: tart, smoky, ready to flirt or sob, and capable of the jazzy timing of a Dinah Washington or the declamation of soul singers like Martha Reeves and Carla Thomas. What she doesn't have, and may not want, is the kind of focus the older singers brought to their songs. Onstage Ms. Winehouse added a British layer of detachment with a performance that switched between confession and indifference.She made songs like "Just Friends" — about trying to pull away from an illicit affair, because "the guilt will kill you if she don't first" — into games of tone and phrasing: withholding a line and then breezing through it, stretching out a note over the band's steady beat (and its not-so-straightforward riffs; the horns quoted Jefferson Airplane's "White Rabbit").But as the set continued, she started to dig into the songs. The moaning, gliding notes took on an ache or a flamboyance, and the pauses became sly and coquettish or pained. Her spontaneity grew both defiant and playful.It didn't always work. In "Rehab" her elongated phrases may have intended to suggest she was dragging her feet, but instead she robbed the song of its punch lines. Yet every so often she would simply nail a line, a verse, a whole song: inserting a suspenseful silence before the profanity that leaps out of "Me and Mr. Jones," or sounding both mournful and perversely self-satisfied in "You Know I'm No Good," or capturing the self-deluding hope and repeated disappointment of "Back to Black."If Ms. Winehouse were a purely old-fashioned soul singer, she'd just be a nostalgia act, though one with some telling songs. Her self-consciousness, and the bluntness she has learned from hip-hop, could help lead soul into 21st-century territory. But on Tuesday her performance only partly lived up to what her voice and her songs might hold. And a set that lasted less than an hour made her even more of a tease.Music and DanceDANBURY Ives Concert Hall in White Hall Danbury Community Orchestra, directed by Stephen Michael Smith; works by Paula M. Kimper, Wagner and Dvorak. May 6 at 7 p.m. Free. Ives Concert Hall in White Hall, 181 White Street, Western Connecticut University Midtown Campus. (203) 837-8350.FALLS VILLAGE Music Mountain The Ten of the University Glee Club of New York, all male a cappella group. May 6 at 3 p.m. $12 to $25; children under 12, free. Music Mountain, 225 Music Mountain Road. (860) 824-7126.GREENWICH Wallace Performing Arts Center The Ahn Trio, presented by the Center for Chamber Music. Friday at 8 p.m. $35; students, $15. Wallace Performing Arts Center, 200 North Maple Avenue. (203) 661-6626.HAMDEN Alumni Hall Annual Golden Bells Festival Concert, presented by the Hamden Symphony Orchestra. May 6 at 3 p.m. Free. Alumni Hall, Quinnipiac University. (203) 582-8425.MIDDLETOWN Memorial Chapel Wesleyan Collegium Musicum, directed by Jane Alden. May 6 at 4 p.m. Annual Organ Romp, featuring Bach's Toccata and Fugue in D Minor.  Thursday at 10 p.m. Both free. Memorial Chapel, Wesleyan University. (860) 685-3355.MIDDLETOWN World Music Hall Worlds of Dance Concert, featuring Wesleyan dance students. May 6 at 2 p.m. Free. World Music Hall, Center for the Arts, Wesleyan University. (860) 685-3355.NEW HAVEN Firehouse 12 Experimental Music Series: "An Evening With Alvin Lucier," sound artist. May 12 at 8:30 p.m. $15; series pass, $35. David Weiss and The Point of Departure Quartet, jazz. Friday at 8:30 and 10 p.m. $10 and $15. Firehouse 12, 45 Crown Street. (203) 785-0468.NEW HAVEN Sprague Hall Meehyun Ahn, piano, Kyung Sun Lee, violin, and Kangho Lee, cello; works by Mendelssohn, Brahms and Shostakovich. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Free. Sprague Hall, Yale University, College and Wall Streets. (203) 432-4158.NEW HAVEN Woolsey Hall "Symphonies of Psalms," presented by the New Haven Chorale. May 6 at 4:30 p.m. $15 to $35; students, free. Woolsey Hall, Yale University. (203) 562-5666.NEW LONDON Evans Hall, Cummings Art Center Connecticut College Percussion Ensemble and New Music Ensemble, directed by Pete Jarvis. Thursday at 7 p.m. Free. Connecticut College Orchestra Concert, directed by Gerald Moshell. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $5; seniors and students, $3. Evans Hall, Cummings Art Center, Connecticut College. (860) 439-2720.NEW LONDON Leamy Hall Auditorium "A Look to the Future," concert presented by the United States Coast Guard Band. May 13 at 2 p.m. Free. Leamy Hall Auditorium, Mohegan Avenue. (860) 701-6826.OLD LYME First Congregational Church of Old Lyme Musical Masterworks Chamber Music Series: Paula Robison, flute, Romero Lubambo, guitar, and Cyro Baptista, percussion. May 6 at 3 p.m. $5 to $30. First Congregational Church of Old Lyme, 2 Ferry Road. (860) 767-1833.RIDGEFIELD Temple Shearith Israel Tim Grimm, singer songwriter. May 6 at 7 p.m. $15 to $20. Temple Shearith Israel, 46 Peaceable Street. (203) 431-6501.STAMFORD Palace Theater, Stamford Center for the Arts Young Artists Philharmonic, directed by Salvatore Princiotti. May 13 at 7 p.m. $19. Palace Theater, Stamford Center for the Arts, 61 Atlantic Street. (203) 325-4466.STAMFORD Rich Forum, Stamford Center for the Arts James Blood Ulmer and the Memphis Blood Blues Band. Friday at 8 p.m. $20 to $45. Rich Forum, Stamford Center for the Arts, 307 Atlantic Street. (203) 325-4466.STAMFORD Stamford First Congregational Church Musicians From Marlboro; works by Mozart, Shostakovich and Dvorak. May 12 at 8 p.m. $5 to $35. Stamford First Congregational Church, Walton Place and Bedford Street. (203) 964-9747.WALLINGFORD Chevrolet Theater Brian McKnight, soul. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. $35 to $55. Chevrolet Theater, 95 South Turnpike Road. (203) 265-1501.WATERBURY Fine Arts Center The Waterbury Symphony Orchestra; works by Ravel, Rimsky-Korsakov and Jennifer Higdon. May 12 at 8 p.m. $5 to $40. Fine Arts Center, 750 Chase Parkway, Naugatuck Valley Community College. (203) 574-4283.TheaterHARTFORD The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts "The Dazzling Dollar Store Divas," original musical conceived and performed by the Connecticut Gay Men's Chorus. May 12 at 8 p.m. $30 and $35. The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue. (860) 987-5900.HARTFORD TheaterWorks Hartford "Murderers" by Jeffrey Hatcher. Through May 27. $10 to $45. TheaterWorks Hartford, 233 Pearl Street. (860) 527-7838.NEW BRITAIN Hole in the Wall Theater Molière's "Tartuffe," directed by Antoni Sadlak. Friday through June 9. Donation: $15. Hole in the Wall Theater, 116 Main Street. (860) 229-3049.NEW BRITAIN Repertory Theater of New Britain "Grease" by Jim Jacobs and Warren Casey, directed by Pat Souney. Through May 19. $13 to $21. Repertory Theater of New Britain, 23 Norden Street. (860) 223-3147.NEW CANAAN Powerhouse Theater  "Proof" by David Auburn, presented by the Town Players of New Canaan. Through May 12. $12 to $15. Powerhouse Theater, at Waveny Park. (203) 966-7371.NEW HAVEN Long Wharf Theater Chekhov's "Uncle Vanya," adapted and directed by Gordon Edelstein. Wednesday through June 3. $31.25 to $61.25. Long Wharf Theater, 222 Sargent Drive. (203) 787-4282.NEW HAVEN Yale Repertory Theater "The Unmentionables" by Bruce Norris, directed by Anna D. Shapiro. Through May 26. $35 to $55. Yale Repertory Theater, 1120 Chapel Street. (203) 432-1234.NEW MILFORD TheaterWorks Neil Simon's "Brighton Beach Memoirs," directed by Glenn R. Couture. Through May 26. $20. TheaterWorks, 5 Brookside Avenue. (860) 350-6863.SIMSBURY Simsbury United Methodist Church Agatha Christie's "Mousetrap," presented by the Theater Guild of Simsbury. Through May 6. $15. Simsbury United Methodist Church, 799 Hopmeadow Street. (850) 658-0666.STAMFORD Stamford Theater Works "The Music of Rodgers and Hart," conceived and directed by David Bishop and Shawn Churchman. Through May 20. $22 to $38. Stamford Theater Works, 200 Strawberry Hill Avenue. (203) 359-4414.STRATFORD Stratford Theater "The Constant Wife" by Somerset Maugham, presented by Square One Theater Company. Friday through May 26. $15 and $16. Stratford Theater, 2422 Main Street. (203) 375-8778.TORRINGTON Warner Theater "The Sound of Music." Through May 13. $16.50 to $22.50. Warner Theater, 68 Main Street. (860) 489-7180.WATERBURY Seven Angels Theater "Buddy: The Buddy Holly Story," with music from Ritchie Valens and the Big Bopper. Through June 10. $27 to $45. Seven Angels Theater, Plank Road in Hamilton Park Pavilion. (203) 757-4676.ComedyWALLINGFORD Chevrolet Theater Jerry Seinfeld. May 12 at 7 p.m. $53.50 to $83.50. Chevrolet Theater, 95 South Turnpike Road. (203) 265-1501.FilmBRIDGEPORT Black Rock Art Center "The White Balloon," directed by Jafar Panahi; in Persian with English subtitles. Friday at 7 p.m. $6; with dinner, $20. Black Rock Art Center, 2838 Fairfield Avenue. (203) 367-7917.GREENWICH Greenwich Library "In Her Shoes" directed by Curtis Hanson. Friday at 8 p.m. Free. Greenwich Library, 101 West Putnam Avenue. (203) 622-7900.HARTFORD Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art "Live Flesh," directed by Pedro Almodóvar; in Spanish with English subtitles. May 6 at 7:30 p.m. "Bad Education," directed by Pedro Almodóvar; in Spanish with English subtitles. Thursday, May 12 and 13 at 7:30 p.m. $3 to $8. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, 600 Main Street. (860) 838-4058.STAMFORD Ferguson Library Main Branch "This Film Is Not Yet Rated," directed by Kirby Dick. Thursday at 6:30 p.m. "The Queen," directed by Stephen Frears. May 12 at 2 p.m. Both free. Ferguson Library Main Branch, 1 Public Library Plaza. (203) 964-1000.WESTPORT Westport Public Library "Freedom Writers," directed by Richard LaGravenese. May 12 at 2 p.m. Free. Westport Public Library, 20 Jesup Road. (203) 291-4818.OutdoorsSTAMFORD Unitarian Universalist Society in Stamford Green Sunday Festival; environmental education exhibits and children's activities. May 6, 1:30 to 6:30 p.m. Free. Unitarian Universalist Society in Stamford, 20 Forest Street. (203) 348-0708.Spoken WordMADISON R.J. Julia Booksellers Susan Vreeland, author of "Luncheon of the Boating Party." May 6 at 2 p.m. Jon Clinch, author of "Finn." Monday at 7 p.m. Fay Weldon, author of "What Makes Women Happy." Wednesday at 7 p.m. Leslie Bennetts, author of "The Feminine Mistake: Are We Giving Up Too Much?" Thursday at 7 p.m. Maureen O'Brien, author of "B-Mother." Friday at 7 p.m. Vladimir Shpitalnik and Cornelia Evans, authors of "Sasha and Babushka: A Story of Russia." May 12 at 4 p.m. All: free. R.J. Julia Booksellers, 768 Boston Road. (203) 245-3959.MYSTIC Mystic Seaport Nathaniel Philbrick, author of "Mayflower: A Story of Courage." Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. $12; members, $10. Mystic Seaport, 75 Germanville Avenue. (860) 572-0711.NEW CANAAN New Canaan Library Nancy Gladstone, author of "Four Queens." Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Free. New Canaan Library, 151 Main Street. (203) 594-5000.WESTPORT Westport Public Library Jim Cullen, author of "Imperfect Presidents." Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Al Pia, author of "On Stage!" and "Acting the Truth." Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Both: free. Westport Public Library, 20 Jesup Road. (203) 291-4818.For ChildrenBRIDGEPORT Downtown Cabaret Theater "Beauty and the Beast," comical version of the children's play. Through May 20. $13.50. Downtown Cabaret Theater, 263 Golden Hill Street. (203) 576-1636.FAIRFIELD Sacred Heart University (Edgerton Center for the Performing Arts) "Charlotte's Web," adapted from the children's story by E. B. White. Ages 4 to 11. Wednesday through May 26. $10 to $18. Edgerton Center for the Performing Arts, Sacred Heart University, 5151 Park Avenue. (203) 371-7908.WATERBURY Palace Theater of Connecticut "Willy Wonka," adapted from the book by Roald Dahl by Leslie Bricusse, Anthony Newley and Tim McDonald. All ages. Friday at 7 p.m. $10 to $25. Palace Theater of Connecticut, 100 East Main Street. (203) 755-4700.WEST HARTFORD The Children's Museum "Color Play: The Art and Science of Color and Light," explore light and holographic refraction. Ages 12 and under. Through June 17. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. The Children's Museum, 950 Trout Brook Drive. (860) 231-2824.WEST HAVEN Dodds Auditorium, University of New Haven "Annie, Jr.," adaptation of the Broadway musical by Thomas Meehan, Charles Strouse and Martin Charnin, presented by the Alliance Children's Theater. May 6 at 2 p.m. $6. Dodds Auditorium, University of New Haven, (203) 932-7246.Museums and GalleriesGREENWICH Bruce Museum of Arts and Sciences "Zip, Bop and Whir: Toys of the 20th Century," exhibition exploring the evolution of toy technology. Through July 8. "Weaving a Collection: Native American Baskets From the Bruce Museum." Through June 10. "Fakes and Forgeries: The Art of Deception," over 50 examples of forged Western painting and sculpture. May 12 through Sept. 9. $7; seniors and students, $6; children 5 and under, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Bruce Museum of Arts and Sciences, 1 Museum Drive. (203) 869-0376.HARTFORD Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art "Picasso to Pop: Aspects of Modern Art," exhibition of the museum's holdings from many 20th-century genres. Through Nov. 18. $3 to $10; members and children 12 and under, free. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; first Thursdays of the month, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, 600 Main Street. (860) 838-4058.KENT Ober Gallery Works by Jesse McCloskey. Through May 24. Reception: May 6, 2 to 5 p.m. Hours: Wednesday through Thursday, 1 to 4 p.m.; Friday through Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Ober Gallery, 14 Old Barn Road. (860) 927-5030.LAKEVILLE Tremaine Gallery at the Hotchkiss School "Arthur Getz: Fine Artist and Illustrator." Through June 17. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Tremaine Gallery at the Hotchkiss School, 11 Interlaken Road. (860) 435-4423.MASHANTUCKET Mashantucket Pequot Museum and Research Center "Booming Out: Mohawk Ironworkers Build New York," photographs and sculpture documenting the Mohawk sky-walking construction tradition passed through six generations. Through May 27. $10 to $15; children under 6, free. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; last admission, 3 p.m. Mashantucket Pequot Museum and Research Center, 110 Pequot Trail. (800) 411-9671.MIDDLETOWN Davison Art Center "A Newspaperman's Eye," American photographs from the collection of Russell G. D'Oench. Through May 27. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Davison Art Center, 301 High Street, Wesleyan University. (860) 685-2500.MIDDLETOWN Ezra and Cecile Zilkha Gallery Wesleyan Faculty Art Show, featuring sculpture, photography, and digital media. Through May 27. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Ezra and Cecile Zilkha Gallery, Wesleyan University, 283 Washington Terrace. (860) 685-3355.NEW HAVEN Arts + Literature Laboratory "Interleaving," juried exhibition with works by 16 artists. May 12 through June 17. Reception: May 12, 5 to 7 p.m. Free. Hours: Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Arts + Literature Laboratory, 319 Peck Street. (203) 671-5175.NEW HAVEN Yale Center for British Art "Paul Mellon's Legacy: A Passion for British Art," more than 250 works from the Mellon Collection. Through July 29. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Yale Center for British Art, 1080 Chapel Street. (203) 432-2800.NEW LONDON ALVA Gallery "Ana Flores: Cuba Journal." May 6 through June 16. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. ALVA Gallery, 54 State Street. (860) 437-8664.NEW LONDON Lyman Allyn Art Museum "Gas in Glass: The Light Sculptures of Mundy Hepburn." Through June 24. "Expresiones/Expressions: Caribbean and Latin American Art From the Benjamin Ortiz Collection." Through June 24. $3 and $4; children 6 and under, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Lyman Allyn Art Museum, 625 Williams Street. (860) 443-2545.OLD LYME Florence Griswold Museum "The Freedom Business: Connecticut Landscapes Through the Eyes of Venture Smith," poems by Marilyn Nelson paired with paintings from the museum's collection. Through June 24. "A Circle of Friends: The Artists of the Florence Griswold Museum." Through July 1. $4 to $8; under 6, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Florence Griswold Museum, 96 Lyme Street. (860) 434-5542.RIDGEFIELD Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum "The Photograph as Canvas," works by artists who draw or paint on photographs. Through June 10. "Tekrar," sound installation by David Abir. Through Aug. 12. "W(E)AVE," sound and textile collaboration between Elana Herzog and Michael Schumacher. "Blow Ups: Spores, Pollen and Pollutants," works by Kysa Johnson. Through June 10. "Castles, Dwarfs, and Happychaps," work by Arturo Herrera created using the Renaissance technique of pouncing. Through Sept. 2. "Chrysanthemum Anthems," sculpture by Dario Robleto based on American soldiers' experience of wars. Through June 17. $7; seniors and students, $4; members, K-12 teachers and children under 18, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, 258 Main Street. (203) 438-4519.ROXBURY Minor Memorial Library "Places," assemblages by Elisabeth Munro Smith. Through June 11. Hours: Mondays, noon to 7 p.m.; Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Minor Memorial Library, 23 South Street. (860) 350-21281.STORRS Ballard Institute and Museum of Puppetry "Shadows and Substance," exhibition of shadow puppets from Turkey, Indonesia, China, India and the United States. Through Nov. 17. Hours: Fridays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Ballard Institute and Museum of Puppetry, 6 Bourne Place. (860) 486-4605.STORRS William Benton Museum of Art "Intemperate Times: Kathe Kollwitz, 1918-1934." Through May 6. "Tradition and Innovation: Latin American Art From the Benton Collection." Through June 17. "Old Master Drawings and Prints," exhibition of 15 Italian and Dutch works dating from 1539 to 1690. Through May 6. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 4:30 p.m. William Benton Museum of Art, 245 Glenbrook Road. (860) 486-4520.WESTPORT Westport Historical Society "Art and the Good Earth: As Seen Through the Painter's Eye," works by 14 artists. Through Friday. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Westport Historical Society, 25 Avery Place. (203) 224-1424.WOODBURY Fenn Gallery "Pattern Play," paintings by Anne Hebebrand and sculpture by Diana Chamberlain. Through May 13. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Fenn Gallery, 345 Main Street South. (203) 263-3449.BETHLEHEM, Pa., May 5 — Few would have guessed, say 25 years ago, that among the central pillars of this city's storied tradition the Bethlehem Bach Festival would prove sturdier than Bethlehem Steel. But the steel mill, shut down in 1998, now stands as perhaps the most spectacular ruin of the American rust belt. And the annual Bach festival is alive, well and celebrating its 100th outing here, 85 miles west of New York City.Now that civic tradition, scrupulously built over decades and centuries on the Moravian cultural and religious ethic and the American work ethic, faces another jolt as the Sands Corporation develops plans to turn the steel plant into a casino. That particular service industry seems an odd fit for this city of 73,000 with two notable institutions, Moravian College and Lehigh University; a bad fit, many say.But the festival seems unperturbed by the prospect of this unlikely new bedfellow. The city proved remarkably resilient in the face of the Bethlehem Steel closing, said Bridget George, the festival's executive director, and "as change comes, we have to be as creative and reinventive in our own response to what Bethlehem is and how passionately we feel about it."The festival, which began over the weekend and resumes on Friday, is actually more than 100 years old. It is presented by the volunteer Bach Choir of Bethlehem, which was founded in 1898. The inaugural festival, in 1900, included the first complete American performance of Bach's Mass in B minor, which was performed again on Saturday afternoon, as it is every year. Not quite annual at the start, the festival has appeared regularly since 1934.By all accounts the chorus remains as vital an institution as ever, having installed a popular series of noonday Bach concerts on the first Tuesday of some months. But the choir is not as big as ever. Once 300 voices strong, it was down to 200 or so when Greg Funfgeld, its current music director, took over in 1984 and now hovers around 100.The reduction was partly because of more stringent quality control, partly a concession to current notions of how big — small, really — a Bach chorus should be. (The most advanced thought, embraced by Michael Marissen, a music professor at Swarthmore College, in the distinguished scholar lecture on Friday, now suggests a single voice per part.) But for this chorus to become much smaller would defeat its very reason for being, as a vehicle for mass community involvement. "We're not whittling much further," Ms. George said.For the same reason pitch-perfection, incisive brilliance and consummate virtuosity are beside the point. The spirit of the enterprise carries the day beautifully in context, in the reverberant confines of Packer Memorial Church on the Lehigh campus (though less well in the bright acoustical light of Carnegie Hall, as in a performance of the Mass there in 2000).The chorus was bigger for the B minor Mass here, filled out with 50 singers from the choir of Baldwin-Wallace College in Berea, Ohio. This collaboration, which also took the Bach Choir of Bethlehem to Severance Hall in Cleveland last month, was intended to celebrate not only the Bethlehem milestone but also the 75th anniversary of Baldwin-Wallace's Bach festival, patterned after Bethlehem's and said to be the oldest collegiate Bach festival in America. The B minor Mass performance was rousing, committed and touching, if hardly a model of clarity and detail.The other big work, performed on Friday, was Bach's "St. Matthew Passion." This too was ardently and lovingly performed. But in the fashion of some festivals it was performed in two parts around a dinner break of more than two hours (in contrast to the hourlong intermission in the Mass).The break seemed to do the singers few favors. The performance lost much of its focus in the second half, and the tenor Frederick Urrey, who had gamely coped with the punishing role of the Evangelist in the first half, lost control of his upper range. A listener might have been willing to ascribe the difficulty to physical problems, but Mr. Urrey, in an aria of the Mass that could have turned over to the other tenor on hand, Benjamin Butterfield, appeared again to similar effect.To a lesser extent all the vocal soloists were uneven, but good moments generally outweighed the bad for the baritone William Sharp as Jesus; Anne Grimm and Rosa Lamoreaux, sopranos; Daniel Taylor, countertenor; and Mr. Butterfield. Christopheren Nomura, a bass-baritone, was the most consistently pleasing, and in his performance, the cleansing, uplifting aria near of the end of the Passion, "Mache dich, mein Herze, rein" worked its usual wonders.Another example of the festival's openness to innovation came with its first venture into dance. On Saturday morning in the Zoellner Arts Center at Lehigh, six dancers from Taylor 2, a touring arm of the Paul Taylor Dance Company, gave vibrant performances of "Airs," to music of Handel, and "Esplanade," to violin concertos of Bach. To judge from the clamorous audience reaction, dance will be back at the festival. Which, to anyone who has traced the origins of so much of Bach's music to dance forms, must seem only appropriate.Many music fans know that Pete Wentz, the bassist for the rock band Fall Out Boy, found himself overexposed last year when sexually explicit pictures of him surfaced on the Internet. Many also know that Keith Urban, the country superstar, recently endured a stint in rehab.Despite the bad publicity, both acts have received a marketing push from Verizon, through promotions as "featured" artists on its mobile network or elsewhere.Yet it was Akon, a smooth, Senegalese-American R&B singer, whose conduct in an amateur video circulating online recently seemed to cross a line for Verizon, which last week said it would cease advertisements involving him. Verizon also terminated its sponsorship of the pop star Gwen Stefani's  tour, for which Akon is the opening act. The move by Verizon has sent a chill through the ranks of touring pop artists and agents, who are left scratching their heads over their vulnerability to such penalties.Verizon — the telecommunications company, which markets music services including ring tones and live-performance videos — quietly moved to end its affiliation with Akon last week after critics, including conservative political commentators, called attention to a video of him simulating sex with a fan onstage during a club performance in Trinidad several weeks ago. The fan, according to news accounts in Trinidad, turned out to be under 18 (and a pastor's daughter). Yesterday Akon offered an apology that appeared to deflect part of the blame on to the club that admitted the girl.Analysts and industry executives said that corporate sponsors typically study artists' images before deciding to back them, and often press for the contracts to include moral clauses that allow the company to back out if an artist commits a crime or other misconduct. But analysts said that the recent episode with Akon could prompt them to take an even more expansive view."Artists that are sponsored by companies are probably getting some feedback to watch their behavior," said William Chipps, a senior editor of the IEG Sponsorship Report. "I think, nowadays, most artists are savvy enough to realize that their actions have consequences. If you're working with a sponsor, bad behavior could jeopardize that relationship."But others said Verizon should have more fully understood Akon before choosing to promote him. The first two singles from his recent album, "Konvicted," include sexual references and became hits. Yet others say Akon's stage show on Ms. Stefani's tour has been relatively tame, and that Verizon acted unfairly, and perhaps without considering whether Akon could have known his onstage dance partner was under age."I want to sincerely apologize for the embarrassment and any pain I've caused to the young woman who joined me onstage, her family and the Trinidad community for the events at my concert," Akon said in a statement.Jim Guerinot, Ms. Stefani's manager, said yesterday that although Verizon has the right to sever ties with Akon, "this kid is not getting a fair shake," he said, referring to Akon. He added, "I strongly disagree with their take on it."Mr. Guerinot added that it was also unfair to pull the sponsorship from Ms. Stefani's tour: "How this has anything to do with Gwen Stefani I have no idea."Verizon was expected to pay Ms. Stefani the cash portion of its sponsorship agreement, said to be around $2 million, but will not continue its advertising and other promotions related to the tour, which may have carried an even higher value."We made a decision, based on what we saw, and in this case, our own customers, who we listen to, were reacting," James Gerace, a Verizon spokesman, said. He said Verizon would remove Akon from an array of Internet and store promotions, though it had not removed his music from its ring-tone service.While the company may have appeased some critics, it may also have upset many fans. Akon's album, "Konvicted," has sold more than 2.2 million copies and is No. 11 on the Billboard chart. Ms. Stefani's album has sold more than 1.2 million copies, according to Nielsen SoundScan.One effect of the move was the cancellation of a contest.One fan of Ms. Stefani, April Van Zandt, of Landers, Calif., said she and several friends she had met online had labored on a home-made Gwen Stefani music video for a Verizon-backed contest that was withdrawn because of the company's move. Ms. Van Zandt, 27, said she and her friends — fans whom she has become close to but never met — were hoping to win the contest, in which the prize was a trip to California, so they could meet for the first time. "I would think they would lose some business over this, not just me," said Ms. Van Zandt, who added that she has a Verizon phone. "People are very upset."And while Verizon may have distanced itself from Akon, it has not severed the connection completely: Ms. Stefani's tour, with Akon, is set to hit four Verizon Wireless-branded theaters during the rest of the American segment of her tour, which runs through June. The show is scheduled for the Verizon Wireless amphitheater in Charlotte, N.C., on Saturday.IN fashion, everything old eventually becomes new again. No matter how old.Still, it was surprising to see about 85 of the fashion world's young tastemakers turn out on Thursday not to see Lily Allen or Arcade Fire, but the Dutch violinist Janine Jansen. The private recital wasn't at Carnegie Hall, that Midtown stalwart that is probably more foreign to many of those in attendance than Paris or Milan, and where she was scheduled to play two days later. Instead, it took place at one of their more familiar stomping grounds: Milk Studios on West 15th Street in Manhattan, one of New York's best known fashion photography studios.The idea, ostensibly, was not just to turn the world's finest musicians into mere theme-party props to impress jaded scenesters, insisted Mazdack Rassi, a partner in Milk Studios —himself, a scenester of the first order, though he sounded far from jaded on this evening."Our purpose is to expose these top-class artists to a new group of people who are more downtown — trendsetters, fashion people — in hopes of spreading classical music to a new generation," said the dapper Mr. Rassi, explaining the concept behind this quarterly classical-music recital series, titled Milk Salon.He launched the series in February (the first concert featured the Chinese pianist Yundi Li) with friend Jean Jacques Cesbron, the president of the classical music talent agency Columbia Artists Music, and with Marc Johnston, a public relations and marketing executive in the classical music field.Mr. Rassi and Mr. Cesbron, whose relationship spans the fabled uptown/downtown divide, both felt a little stranded — professionally and psychically — on his own side of 23rd Street, Mr. Rassi said, so they figured they could create a cultural collision, if not a welcome break from the same old fashion-world nighttime routine: models and actresses drinking, dancing on tables, and trying to stay off of Page Six. Instead, they conspired to import a more refined culture to the meatpacking district.Lindsay Lohan, who appears in the current advertising campaign for Miu Miu, was not in attendance.The larger goal, Mr. Cesbron explained, against a backdrop of 10-foot-tall windows overlooking the Hudson River before the performance on Thursday, was to free 200-year-old music from the stigma that it appeals to people who seem nearly that old themselves."Classical music is not stuffy," he said, adding, "it just needs a different setting."Thursday's boldface crowd — who are forever chasing the next with the voracity of Pac-Man — already seemed a step ahead of him. Georgina Chapman, a designer for Marchesa,  said that Mozart's Requiem leaves her feeling "entranced." Her design partner, Keren Craig, spoke rhapsodically about the first time she saw "Tosca" at age 11. The model Petra Nemcova, meanwhile, explained that Dvorak, a fellow Czech, sounds as sexy to her as any pulsating rock music.Judging by the testimonials from such fashion A-listers — the crowd also included the art world fixture Hope Atherton and the models Lara Stone and Tasha Tilberg — classical music is not only not dead to those who typically talk Versace more than Vivaldi, but actually functions as something of a musical form of Xanax to chill them out.Paulo Melim Andersson of Chloé listens to Bach and Schumann while conjuring design images, he said. "Classical music is so intimate, it's wonderful to have in your head," he said. "It's like a soundtrack of your private life."The designer Doo-Ri Chung said she and her colleagues listen to classical music throughout the day at her studio on 38th Street. Indie rock proved too jarring to the creative mind-set— no sooner do you calibrate your vibe to an ethereal Shins album, then bang, the playlist jerks you over into the twee pop eclecticism of the band, of Montreal. "Classical music is much more mid-level," she said.Like the Milk Salon founders, Katie Ford, the chief executive of Ford Models, is host to salons on a regular basis in her SoHo home, and a half dozen of them have included classical music performances. "There's a natural link," Ms. Ford said, adding, "People in different creative fields tend to appreciate each other."Meanwhile, those in the classical music industry, where major label album sales have withered over the years, seem to appreciate any help they can get in coercing the artfully dyed patrons of the nearby Sally Hershberger salon on  14th Street to join the sea of gray heads that blanket most concert halls.In a telephone conversation before the show, Eric Latzky, the chief spokesman for the New York Philharmonic, suggested "high energy" classical works would work just as well as techno as a soundtrack at future tent shows — despite the fact that classical music is about as common on fashion runways as love handles. "It could be anything from a ubiquitous piece like Mozart's 'Turkish March,' or something contemporary, like 'Scherzoid,' by Mark-Anthony Turnage," he argued.Following Ms. Jansen's scintillating encore of Vivaldi's "Summer" at the event, Maxwell, the R&B musician, leaped to his feet in a spirited standing ovation. Afterward, he launched into an animated air-violin performance of his own for a smiling companion.Despite the warm reception, Ms. Jansen admitted that she felt more nervous before a roomful of fashion elites than she would in front of a packed house at the Royal Albert Hall."Maybe part of it is knowing that this is not what they would usually listen to," she said.Perhaps she need not have worried. She looked, well, fashionable enough  in her embroidered, red Escada top."I got to be Jim Morrison a lot longer than he did," the wild-man Southern California singer-songwriter Warren Zevon liked to brag in his abbreviated later years. So we learn from Carl Hiaasen's foreword to this effusive, seamy — effusively seamy? — oral biography assembled by Zevon's ex. Short on perspective it may be, but "I'll Sleep When I'm Dead"definitely piles up enough horrendous behavior to back the title's claim.Still, as even Jimbo might agree from his resting place in Père-Lachaise, being Morrison with self-knowledge is a painful contradiction in terms. Come to think of it, "wild-man Southern California singer-songwriter" doesn't exactly trip off the tongue either. Zevon, who died at 56 in 2003 after the cancer diagnosis that inspired his Grammy-winning final album, "The Wind,"wasn't much on fitting into categories.Not pop ones, anyway, the reason his reputation always topped his sales even at his peak, 1978's "Excitable Boy," which included Zevon's only hit single: the goofball, irresistible "Werewolves of London." His joke about Morrison jumps out because he seldom compared himself to any rock 'n' roller. Despite his iffy choices of Ross Macdonald as Zeus and Hunter S. Thompson as Hermes, literature was his Olympus.If anything, he was the terminus — the last great literary drunk, marooned not under the volcano but just left of the Hollywood sign. Never the voice of a generation, Zevon was a recognizable figure to one of its subsets: the would-be hard-boiled eggheads who dreamed of being the son Hemingway and Scott Fitzgerald had never had. Luckily for him, just about every other rock critic in the male-dominated 1970s had spent college nursing ambitions of melding T. S. Eliot and Raymond Chandler, with "April is the cruelest month" engraved on the long barrel of an imaginary .44.Compared with Zevon's ebullient inside track on this stuff — the erudite vein of macho fantasy — Elvis Costello was a piker. If you recognized the affliction, it was disconcerting but exhilarating to hear your private fetishes mocked and championed by a recognizable fellow prisoner, usually simultaneously. Because he couldn't help being funny about what mattered most to him, my hunch is that Zevon will ultimately be remembered as a wit.That's why one of the oddest sounding encomiums to Zevon in "I'll Sleep When I'm Dead" — "the Dorothy Parker of rock 'n' roll" — ends up being surprisingly acute. After all, Parker doesn't belong to literature so much as she plays the part of our fantasy kvetcher and aspirant rolled into one. So did Zevon. Remember, this is a man whose greatest line — the "April is the cruelest month" of '70s L.A. rock — is a mock-Hemingwayesque report on a werewolf drinking at Trader Vic's: "His hair was perfect."According to his partner in the folk duo he formed in his teens, Zevon's eccentricities were "early and fabulous." Born to a Jewish father and a Mormon mother — a recipe to stimulate Norman Mailer's imagination — he later claimed he'd had "the highest I.Q. ever tested in Fresno," and proved it by getting out early. Dad was a gambling man with shady connections; once, collecting a high school friend at the Los Angeles airport in a spiffy Corvette and a new "Steve McQueen-style" haircut, Zevon cheerily explained, "My father's a gangster." All this is very evocative of the quiddities of SoCal life in the Beach Boys' heyday, including young Warren's encounters with the elderly Igor Stravinsky — less epochal than he let later profile writers assume, but initiating a lifelong propensity for hero worship just the same.Too ambitious to make a convincing hippie, Zevon scuffed around for years: writing the B-side of the Turtles' 1967 hit "Happy Together,"doing a stint as the Everly Brothers' bandleader. Most decisive was the expat summer he spent singing in an Irish bar outside Barcelona called the Dubliner — more fodder for Mailer — where he befriended a former mercenary who was the inspiration for and co-composer of "Roland the Headless Thompson Gunner," one of Zevon's signature tunes.He came into his own in Los Angeles's mid-'70s rock scene, an environment so free-floating its incongruities were its congruities. Sardonic songs like "Desperados Under the Eaves" put Chandler through a Tom Lehrer sieve: "And if California slides into the ocean / Like the mystics and statistics say it will / I predict this motel will be standing / Until I pay my bill." But Zevon's main record-biz benefactor was the ultra-wimpy Jackson Browne, who produced "Excitable Boy." Meanwhile, Linda Ronstadt — who, unlike Browne, offers no testimony here — kept him in royalties by covering his more mawkish compositions, like "Hasten Down the Wind."Failing to heed one of the funniest epigrams in his own journal ("You don't have to firebomb Dresden to prove you can fly a plane"), Zevon was also a raging alcoholic by his 20s. "I'll Sleep When I'm Dead" documents the results in predictably appalling detail. Prone to slugging his wife — married in 1974, they divorced in '81 — he stayed a compulsive womanizer even after he kicked the sauce, inelegantly justifying his promiscuity by comparing sex to a trip to the bathroom. While Crystal Zevon doesn't appear to grasp it any more than the dozens of witnesses she's rounded up, what's grotesque about this excess of torment is how willed it all sounds — as if, having come across the moldy fig of the artist as sacred monster, Zevon saw debauchery as proof of greatness.Since Crystal Zevon is convinced of her ex-husband's genius, she doesn't bother asking his fellow musicians to make a case for it. Zevon's music was, above all, idiosyncratic; the melodic facility that drew Ronstadt was at once undermined and individuated by his ham-fisted rhythmic sense and ungainly voice. But aside from some interesting anecdotes about his magpie gift for spotting lyrical inspirations in unlikely places, we don't learn a lot about his, you know, art. At least until the making of "The Wind," when this prankishly death-obsessed songwriter movingly tested his mettle against the real thing.By then, Zevon had been sober for 17 years, sticking to it even after he made the classically Angeleno discovery that his A.A. sponsor was a drug addict. His gifts hadn't deserted him, but he'd lost his playground: the oblivious world a satirist needs. Similarly, John Waters stopped being outrageous once the special set of references that had energized him went from privileged to common and dated; Zevon was to self-conscious macho what Waters was to camp. But unlike Waters, he never mastered turning avuncular.After the doctors' verdict, he reached for the bottle again, somewhat marring the heroic spectacle of his final months for his children. When he died, his son had the job of getting rid of his porn stash; the videos turned out to be homemade and to star Zevon. Once a narcissist, always a narcissist — but then, I didn't have to "wrangle" him, to use the telling term of his long-suffering collaborator Jorge Calderon. Nonetheless, while 450 pages makes for plenty of wallowing, the gems aren't other people's insights; they're Zevon's own quips. Told that his presence added cachet to a television show, he answered, "Cachet — isn't that like panache, but sitting down?" If that crack was off the cuff, even Dorothy Parker might have stood up to hold his chair.A few weeks ago, Philadelphia became the first city in the United States to abandon the pen-and-ink diary system of collecting radio ratings data. Instead, Philadelphians who are being surveyed by Arbitron, the ratings measurement service, now wear pager-size devices that register hidden audio tones in nearby radio sound. Arbitron calls the devices Portable People Meters, or P.P.M.'s.The release of the new data has affected rankings in Philadelphia's radio market. In particular, stations that cater to a mostly black audience have suffered relative to their competitors. For example, WDAS, an R&B and soul station, was Philadelphia's No. 2 station last fall, as ranked by its share of all listeners during the average quarter-hour. But in the most recent rankings, it came in at No. 7. WUSL, which plays hip-hop and R&B, went from No. 4 to No. 10.That trend prompted a statement on April 30 from the National Association of Black Owned Broadcasters, which blamed "deficiencies in the P.P.M. methodology." But Thom Mocarsky, a spokesman for Arbitron, said the changes reflected a refinement in the data.A disproportionate number of the affected stations' listeners, he said, had been people who tended to claim daylong bouts of uninterrupted listening to a single station. But the P.P.M. data showed that such people often break up their listening, or switch between stations.ALEX MINDLINAs a human being, you're pretty much stuck with the features you had on the date of manufacture. Very few adults ever become substantially taller, faster or more artistic.In consumer electronics, though, it's another story. By nipping, tucking and incorporating improved technologies as they come along, companies can refine a mediocre product through successive versions until it's a success — if they know what they're doing.Research in Motion (R.I.M.), maker of the BlackBerry e-mail phone, definitely knows what it's doing. If you need proof, just look at the new BlackBerry Curve, which will be available first from Cingular/AT&T in a few weeks. The price hasn't been announced, but $250 with contract is a good guess. (R.I.M. also announced the cameraless corporate BlackBerry 8830, which, surprisingly, works on the Verizon network in this country and also on the ordinarily incompatible G.S.M. networks overseas.)The BlackBerry, as any corporate white-collar type can tell you, is an addictive little cellphone with a Stuart Little thumb keyboard. Its best trick is delivering e-mail  from any kind of account in real time, as it arrives, without your having to fetch it. In fact, if you have Yahoo Mail or a corporate e-mail account, your BlackBerry even synchronizes your actions wirelessly. Send a reply from the BlackBerry, and you'll find it in the Sent Mail folder back on your computer.Lately, though, R.I.M. has been on a quest to hook the rest of us: the hordes who place just as much emphasis on making phone calls and playing music. The tiny BlackBerry Pearl, released last year in chrome and black, may be the most gorgeous smartphone ever designed, and it won legions of new noncorporate fans.As the torn-out hair tufts from a smartphone designer's head can attest, however, you can't have it all; a phone can either be sleek or have a full alphabet keyboard, but not both.The Pearl has only 14 keys to represent the entire alphabet, most labeled with two letters. Built-in software guesses at which word you want.That system is generally successful, but it can occasionally drive you nuts. Typing in a word that's not in its dictionary can take minutes, as I discovered the day I tried to address a message to my friend Jennifer Bowtruczyk.The point of the new BlackBerry Curve, then, is very simple: it's a BlackBerry Pearl with a full QWERTY keyboard. On this new model (also called the BlackBerry 8300), every letter gets its own key.Of course, this new phone is wider than the Pearl, but it's the smallest full-keyboard BlackBerry ever: 4.2 by 2.4 by 0.6 inches, which is shorter and thinner (but slightly wider) than the Palm Treo 700.It's nice that R.I.M. chose a cool name like the Curve, instead of calling its new machine the DCR-5700C or whatever. Still, Curve is a baffling name for this phone, which is no curvier than other BlackBerrys. Nor is R.I.M. throwing you a curve, as in "something totally unexpected"; the Curve is a pleasant and logical descendant of the Pearl. It even has the Pearl's translucent central clickable trackball, which is so efficient a navigation tool that you forget all about the lack of a Treo-like touch screen.Actually, several of the Curve's components are improvements on its predecessor's. The camera's flash is much more powerful, and the photo resolution is now two megapixels (although the photos still look as if they came from a phone). You can run a new spelling checker before firing off an important message, although it doesn't flag errors as you type them, as Word does. The volume increases automatically when you're calling in a noisy place — an extremely obvious feature that ought to be on all phones.The Curve's biggest overhaul, however, has been in its multimedia features. New, attractive, graceful software is in place for playing music and showing photos and videos. You can install a microSD memory card, too — a good thing, since the built-in 64 megabytes of storage hold precious few tunes. Weirdly, you have to remove the battery to get at it.A new piece of Windows software lets you set up a "watched" folder on your PC desktop; any videos or photos  dumped into it are  converted into a format that the BlackBerry likes — and are copied over to it.Better yet, the Curve is one of the first cellphones to offer Bluetooth stereo music playback. That is, it can transmit music from your pocket, wirelessly, to a pair of lightweight Bluetooth headphones; the sound is fantastic. Some of these headsets even have microphones for making calls; when a call comes in, the music pauses automatically until you hang up.If that all sounds a little bit too 2012 for your tastes, here's a less radical feature: this phone has a 3.5-millimeter headphone jack. That's the same audio jack that's on the iPod and every other music player in existence. On the BlackBerry, it means that you can listen to music with any headphones you like.This, too, may sound like an obvious feature, until you realize that the earphone jack on 99.99 percent of cellphones is a 2.5-millimeter jack, too small for standard headphones. (The Curve comes with wired stereo earbuds that have a microphone on the cord.)That's really the whole Curve story: smaller, lighter, masterly at multimedia.The rest is pure, traditional, delightful BlackBerry. Efficiency nuts in particular will lap up the ingenious keyboard shortcuts. For example, you can press the I and O keys for "zoom in" and "zoom out" (when viewing photos); N and P stand for "next" and "previous," T and B for "top" and "bottom," and so on. In e-mail addresses, you can tap the Space bar to produce the @ sign instead of hunting for a special symbol. The BlackBerry puts in apostrophes automatically in "wont," "dont," "Im" and so on, and auto-capitalizes sentences.There's also a simple Ringer Off switch on the top, a screamingly obvious feature that is, bizarrely, a rarity on cellphones.You can charge the phone with a U.S.B. cable attached to your laptop. And the e-mail program can open Word, Excel, PowerPoint, WordPerfect, PDF, JPEG and GIF attachments, which is very cool indeed.This is a G.S.M. phone, meaning that it works in most other countries (for an additional fee, of course). It works as a speakerphone; you can dial by voice; you can assign speed-dial numbers to any key; and the ring tones are rich and polyphonic.Unfortunately, the Curve also inherits some of the Pearl's downsides. It can't capture video at all. And despite the full keyboard, AT&T's Curve can't get onto any of the popular chat networks like AIM, MSN or Yahoo — only Google Talk and BlackBerry's own proprietary network.More appalling to the techie set is that while the BlackBerry's Web browser is nicely designed (and saves you from having to type "http://www" each time), it's slow; you wait about 10 seconds for the text of a Web page to appear, and 15 more for the graphics. That's because this phone can connect only to Cingular/AT&T's sleepy old Edge network, and not to the much faster one that's already available in several big cities. There's no Wi-Fi wireless, either.Finally, of course, there's the little matter of the network itself; Cingular/AT&T's cellular coverage is not what you'd call universal. The Curve's audio quality is fine — but only when a decent signal is available.Still, only a curmudgeon would focus on those nits. This BlackBerry is a great phone (four hours of talk time, 17 days of standby); a fast, comfortable, responsive e-mail terminal; and a surprisingly full-fledged multimedia machine. With its super-intelligent software design, it blows away all those awkward Windows Mobile phones, like the Motorola Q and the Samsung BlackJack, and presents a tantalizing alternative to the Treo. (The choice of smartphone won't become any easier in June, when Apple's even slimmer iPhone is introduced with gigabytes of storage, a complete iPod system and a huge full-length screen — but no physical typing keys.)All of this is good news. Because even if you can't upgrade the components you were born with, it's easy enough to improve upon the ones you buy.
