There have been ominous signs for months. Like the pair of flip-flops that showed up in the mail, courtesy of some record label looking to influence the outcome. And the half-hearted arguments among friends who seemed to be merely going through the motions. And the stagnant pop charts, which all but eliminated suspense.Taken together, these and other omens point to one sad conclusion: It's probably time to stop talking about the so-called Song of the Summer.The winner probably would have been Rihanna, who seemed to wrap up this year's competition almost as soon as it started. Her smash, "Umbrella," with Jay-Z, is just about perfect: a lightweight pop confection with a heavy hip-hop backbeat, a breezy love song enriched by those unexpectedly goth-sounding keyboards and by the incongruous hint of anguish in Rihanna's girlish voice."Umbrella" ascended to the top of Billboard's Hot 100 chart just after Memorial Day, and there it has remained. The new chart, to be published today, will reveal whether she has managed an eighth consecutive week at No. 1. But we're more than halfway to Labor Day, and it seems unlikely that anyone will match Rihanna's run. (Though no doubt Sean Kingston  —  the 17-year-old behind the surging hit "Beautiful Girls," about the young women who leave him either "suicidal" or "in denial," depending on the relative timidity of your local radio station  —  will give it a shot.)What's so special about a summer hit?It's an old-fashioned idea, but it was revived in the 1990s, with the dominance of hip-hop, when that genre pumped new life into silly love songs. Any brief history must include "I'll Be There for You/You're All I Need to Get By," the duet by Method Man and Mary J. Blige, which was ubiquitous in the summer of 1995. Open windows, crowded boardwalks, roofless cars, lazy barbecues: Somehow, summer's traditions combined to make big songs feel even bigger. And in 2005, it seemed as if the entire country was listening to Mariah Carey's "We Belong Together," which dominated the charts from May to September.But looking back, it's clear that summer unanimity is the exception, not the rule. Last summer's crowded field was more typical. "Crazy"? "Ridin' "? "Hips Don't Lie"? "Promiscuous"? There was no clear champion. And even the big winners aren't quite as omnipresent as we obsessives sometimes think. Plenty of people in America  —  most, no doubt  —  can't hum "We Belong Together" and couldn't pick Rihanna out of a lineup. (A helpful hint: her legs start somewhere near her armpits and, as they say, reach all the way to the ground.) As entertainment options multiply, even mainstream pop is starting to look like a niche market.This isn't merely a popularity contest: by tradition, the modern Song of the Summer has to have a certain sound. The basic template is hip-pop; duets are encouraged but not required; the preferred subject is love (although lust works too, so long as there's plenty of flirting); and the preferred feeling is breezy. In an earlier era, when bombastic R&B ballads and earnest rock songs regularly scaled the charts, this summery sound might have seemed like a break from the norm. But it has been over a decade since Toni Braxton howled "Un-Break My Heart," and these days the sound of summer is the sound of pop music, period.Certainly Beyoncé's winter hit, "Irreplaceable," could easily have been a beachgoers' delight. The same goes for recent hits by Akon, Fergie, T-Pain, Justin Timberlake and Gwen Stefani,  who all specialize in sending breezy hip-pop songs up the charts year-round, brazenly ignoring seasonal etiquette. Maybe the return of the singles market (thanks to iTunes and other online retailers) has made the Top 40 more youthful, de-emphasizing the ballads that radio programmers love. Whatever the cause, the result is that the pop charts look like Al Gore's worst nightmare: 52 weeks of summer.Maybe it doesn't matter that the Song of the Summer contest is a goofy fiction. Certainly it's no goofier than Britain's seasonal contest: the annual race to see who will be atop the pop chart on Christmas Day. By tradition, the winning song is often ghastly: last year's champion was Leona Lewis, winner of the TV talent show "The X Factor," singing "A Moment Like This," the old Kelly Clarkson single. The contest pretends to celebrate context while actually creating it: Leona Lewis's song is associated with Christmas because it won, not the other way around. Similarly, lots of American listeners probably associate "We Belong Together" with long days at the beach, even if they never actually heard it there. And something similar may be happening to "Umbrella": a song about rain may come to seem inseparable from sunshine.Hmm. So much for the moratorium on Song of the Summer speculation. It's a doubly durable tradition because it summons up two kinds of nostalgia at once: nostalgia for those endless summer vacations, and nostalgia for an age of unanimity  —  a (fictional) time when we were all listening to the same radio station and buying the same CDs. For anyone who's no longer a full-time student, summer, like broad cultural consensus, comes in short little bursts. We seize it  —  we invent it  —  when we can.The New York Philharmonic reached into its family tree and plucked Alan Gilbert, the 40-year-old son of two Philharmonic musicians, as its next music director, making him the first native New Yorker in the position and a rare American in the job.Philharmonic officials also said they would appoint an elder statesman, Riccardo Muti, 65, to serve in a supporting role equivalent to principal guest conductor.The decisions, to be formally announced at a news conference today, ended several years of speculation about who would succeed Lorin Maazel, who has two seasons left on his contract.Mr. Gilbert, who started an annual two-week stint as guest conductor last season, had long been a likely candidate. Orchestra officials said he appeared to be a front-runner at least a year ago, and that the decision crystallized in the spring."Every time he's come here, it's been better than the prior time," Zarin Mehta, the orchestra's president, said. "We've watched him grow. He's a good musician. He's approaching the prime of his career. He's young and a New Yorker, and he has family in the orchestra."Mr. Gilbert's mother, Yoko Takebe, is a violinist, and his father, Michael Gilbert, also a violinist, retired in 2001. A first cousin, Miki Takebe, is the Philharmonic's director of operations.Mr. Mehta offered Mr. Gilbert the job in a telephone call on July 2, and he is to be introduced to reporters this  morning. His contract, which starts in 2009, will run for 5 years and calls for 12 weeks of concerts a season.While pushing the limit for a baseball player, 42 will be a tender age for the music director of one of the world's major orchestras, especially the Philharmonic, where many musicians and concertgoers expect a seasoned maestro of major stature to occupy the podium.Several conductors in that category, like Daniel Barenboim and Mr. Muti, said they were not interested in the job. And the Philharmonic has turned to conductors in their early 40s before, like Zubin Mehta and Leonard Bernstein, the orchestra's first American-born music director since its founding conductor, Ureli Corelli Hill, in 1842. Mr. Maazel was born in Paris, but grew up  in the United States."Could we have gotten an older guy?" asked Paul B. Guenther, the orchestra's chairman. "Maybe, maybe not. But this is the right thing for the orchestra at this time in this city." He acknowledged that the choice is risky. "There are always risks," he said.Zarin Mehta and other Philharmonic officials presented the decision as a generational change. Mr. Maazel, the music director since 2002, is 77, and Kurt Masur, his predecessor, was 74 when he left that year.Mr. Mehta said that Mr. Gilbert's skills were above reproach and that he had other important qualities: fresh ideas, the ability to communicate and "that indefinable leadership quality that you look for."The orchestral landscape is also changing. Elder statesmen of the podium are a diminishing breed. The classical music world is in the grip of a debate about its relevance to society, with the corollary concern that younger audiences must be reached. Some orchestras are experimenting with two or three leaders. Others, like the Chicago Symphony and the Philadelphia Orchestra, have put off permanent decisions by hiring interim chiefs.New York may have come under pressure to hire a younger music director with the recent announcement by the Los Angeles Philharmonic that it had snapped up Gustavo Dudamel, a 26-year-old Venezuelan considered the hottest conducting property around.Mr. Gilbert's career has been rising rapidly since he became chief conductor of the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra in 2000. He has become a regular guest conductor at major orchestras. Next season he makes his debut at the Vienna State Opera in Bizet's "Carmen."His musical pedigree is excellent. He substituted as a violinist in the Philadelphia Orchestra (under Mr. Muti himself) while studying at the Curtis Institute of Music; became familiar with the Boston Symphony Orchestra while an undergraduate at Harvard; and was an assistant conductor for the Cleveland Orchestra for three years. He also has a conducting degree from the Juilliard School, having studied there with Otto-Werner Mueller.Mr. Gilbert made his New York Philharmonic debut in 2001; three years later he, Mr. Muti and David Robertson, now music director of the St. Louis Symphony, were all given regular guest-conducting stints in what was seen as something of a bake-off. Mr. Gilbert has conducted the Philharmonic in 31 concerts.Mr. Muti,  one of the orchestra's favorite guest conductors, is expected to spend about six to eight weeks a season with the orchestra and to lead tours. He will not have a formal contract. The Philharmonic appears to have backtracked from a plan disclosed in April to divide its leadership between a music director and a principal conductor.Mr. Muti was clearly the choice for the second position. "He just didn't want a title," Mr. Mehta said. "He's free, and he's Italian." Mr. Muti, in a statement, said that conducting the Philharmonic has been a highlight of his musical life.In an interview, Mr. Gilbert was unstinting in his praise for the orchestra. It was far too early, he said, to express any specific plans. He said he would like to see it "connecting with the city in a way that's really fresh and really alive and really current," and that his job was to keep the orchestra at its musical best.Mr. Gilbert's connection to New York will be a change from that of Mr. Maazel, who has been fairly removed from the life of the city. Mr. Gilbert said it was premature  to say whether he would move back to New York. His wife, Kajsa William-Olsson, is a cellist with the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic, and they have two young children."What I hope to do with the Philharmonic is continue to bank on the amazing abilities of the players," he said, "but also think about ways of working together, playing together, listening together, having a flexibility that happens in the moment and causes people to really listen in a fresh way."In Stockholm, Mr. Gilbert said, he was especially proud of his two-week festivals devoted to living composers. He has also ranged widely through the literature, from the central Germanic repertory of Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Schubert and Beethoven through contemporary Swedish composers.Swedish music critics have praised Mr. Gilbert's repertory choices and the liveliness of his performances. Reviewers here have been generally positive, too, noting the clarity of his textures, a decisiveness of musical line and a sensitivity to nuance.Mr. Gilbert is also known for constructing adventurous and interesting programs. "I prefer not to hammer the audience over the head with didactic thinking," he said. "I prefer to let them find their way. It should be possible, without juicing it up, to let the music help people tap into who they are."In Mr. Gilbert the Philharmonic has a true son of the orchestra and of New York. He grew up on the Upper West Side, attending the Ethical Culture School and Fieldston, a private school in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He attended Philharmonic concerts weekly as well as rehearsals, and accompanied his parents on tours. He was known as the child handing out passports. Many members have watched him grow up."I was this little orchestra brat who knew everybody," he said. "I find it still amazing that it's come to this."Orchestra officials and Mr. Gilbert said they were not worried that his emotional bond with the orchestra would interfere with his new role as their boss. "Ultimately the health of the organization has to take precedence over one particular person's feelings," Mr. Gilbert said.At his Philharmonic debut, he said, he was "keenly aware" of his mother's presence to his left, once calling out "Mom!" in jest when she came in a little late during a rehearsal. He said he was also aware of a supportive home-team feeling from the players. But those feelings faded with more performances."It's interesting how the work takes over, and the concentration of rehearsals is really all-encompassing," he said. The family dynamic will probably change, he added, "but hopefully it won't disappear."CLASSICALFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.Opera'INTO THE LITTLE HILL' (Thursday) With a solid reputation at home, the British composer George Benjamin takes his venture into chamber opera to the Lincoln Center Festival. The subject is the Pied Piper of Hamelin legend, and the production is described as anything but representational. At 8:30 p.m., Gerald W. Lynch Theater at John Jay College, 899 10th Avenue, at 58th Street, Clinton, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $55. (Bernard Holland)★ 'DER RING DES NIBELUNGEN' (Tonight and tomorrow night) The production of Wagner's "Ring" by the Kirov Opera, as part of the Lincoln Center Festival, ends with "Siegfried" tonight and "Götterdämmerung" tomorrow. During the first two installments of this four-opera epic, the musical performance under Valery Gergiev was sometimes shaky but consistently rewarding. The Russian orchestra has a distinctive sound, with thick and rich strings, mellow brass and reedy winds, and the cast, over all, was impressive. The production, with sets by George Tsypin, strives to be exotic, magical and surreal. But you can tell how tight the budget must have been from the sometimes cheap and makeshift look of the overly elaborate sets, props and costumes. At 6, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, lincolncenter.org; remaining tickets, $175 and $325. (Anthony Tommasini)Classical MusicASTON MAGNA (Tonight and tomorrow) This festival, devoted to period-instrument performance, continues tonight at Bard College with "The Wit and Wisdom of the French Baroque." Cantatas and sonatas by composers including Rameau and Couperin will be performed by Daniel Stepner, the artistic director and a violinist; the soprano Dominique Labelle; John Gibbons, a harpsichordist; Christopher Krueger, a flutist; and Laura Jeppesen, a violist da gamba. The concert will be repeated tomorrow in the Berkshires. Tonight at 8, Olin Hall, Bard College, Route 9G, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7425; tomorrow at 5 p.m., Daniel Arts Center, Simon's Rock College, Great Barrington, Mass.; (413) 528-3595 or (800) 875-7156, astonmagna.org; $30 to 40. (Vivien Schweitzer)★ BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, and Wednesday) This converted coffee barge, docked on the Brooklyn side of the East River, has become one of the best places to hear chamber music in New York. Tonight the superb young guitarist Jorge Cabellero plays a program of audacious transcriptions, including Bach's Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue (BWV 903) and Mussorgsky's "Pictures at an Exhibition." In a brunch concert tomorrow, Nuno Antunes, a clarinetist, and Tim McCullough, a pianist, collaborate on works by Bartok, Lutoslawski, Debussy and Muczynski. The NYCQ string quartet takes over tomorrow night and Sunday to perform works by Beethoven and Copland, as well as the Schumann Piano Quintet, with Jeffrey Biegel. And on Wednesday the barge's artistic and executive director, Mark Peskanov, is joined by the pianist Steven Beck for a performance of Bach's Sonatas for Violin and Keyboard. Tonight and Wednesday night at 8, tomorrow at 1 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org. $35 tonight, tomorrow afternoon and Wednesday; $40 tomorrow night and Sunday; $20 for students ($25 tomorrow night and Sunday); $30 for 65+ tonight. (Allan Kozinn)BROOKLYN PHILHARMONIC (Tuesday and Wednesday) This orchestra's musicians are having a busy summer touring around the boroughs. Alexander Platt, the music director of the Maverick Concerts festival, takes over from the Philharmonic's music director, Michael Christie, to lead "The Eight Seasons," a program that sets Vivaldi's popular "Four Seasons" beside Astor Piazzolla's "Four Seasons of Buenos Aires." Lara St. John is the violin soloist. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Asser Levy Park, Surf Avenue and Ocean Parkway, Brighton Beach, Brooklyn; Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., the Naumburg Bandshell in Central Park, midpark at 70th Street, (718) 488-5700, brooklynphilharmonic.org; free. (Kozinn)* 'THE FULL MONTEVERDI' (Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Thursday) There are no barriers between audience and performers in  John La Bouchardière's innovative staging of Monteverdi's fourth book of madrigals. Patrons will be intimate witnesses to lovers' quarrels and the breakups of six couples, who sing while seated and mingling amid the audience. Robert Hollingworth directs I Fagiolini, an excellent British early-music ensemble, in Monteverdi's plangent music. At 9 p.m., Kaplan Penthouse, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $60 (includes beverage and snack).(Schweitzer)FELIX HELL (Thursday) If you harbor doubts that an instrument that uses digital samples and speakers instead of bellows and pipes can produce the grand, resounding timbres of a traditional pipe organ, it's worth a visit to Trinity to hear its new Marshall & Ogletree instrument. The church is making that easy: its Conservatory Stars Organ Festival is offering programs by several fine young organists. This week's soloist is Felix Hell, a German-born virtuoso whose program includes Bach's Prelude and Fugue in D (BWV 532), Liszt's Prelude and Fugue on B-A-C-H, Alexandre Guilmant's Sonata in D minor and an arrangement of Barber's Adagio for Strings. At 1 p.m., Trinity Church, Broadway at Wall Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 602-0800, trinitywallstreet.org; free. (Kozinn)★ INTERNATIONAL KEYBOARD INSTITUTE AND FESTIVAL (Tonight through Thursday) Piano buffs should enjoy themselves this week with the myriad offerings of this annual festival  presented by Mannes College the New School for Music. Most of the events are open to the public and include several master classes and daily recitals by distinguished and up-and-coming artists. Highlights of this week's lineup include recitals by Anna Polonsky and Olga Kern tonight, Alberto Nosè on Sunday and a lecture and performance by David Dubal on Monday. Concerts at 6 and 8:30 each night, Mannes Concert Hall, 150 West 85th Street, Manhattan, (212) 580-0210, Ext. 4858, ikif.org; $20 for concerts, $15 for master classes. (Schweitzer)★ MAVERICK CONCERTS (Tomorrow and Sunday) This concert series near Woodstock, N.Y., offers its performances in an open-backed barn that allows the sounds of nature to mingle with the music. Jason Vieaux, a young guitarist who has made several first-class recordings, plays a Young People's Concert tomorrow morning, as well as a full recital that evening. His program includes Bach's Prelude, Fugue and Allegro (BWV 998) and works by Sor, Ponce, Albéniz and Pat Metheny. On Sunday the Pacifica Quartet offers a promising program: Beethoven's Quartet No. 2, Ligeti's "Metamorphoses Nocturnes" and Smetana's "From My Life." Tomorrow at 11 a.m. and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Maverick Concert Hall, Maverick Road, between Routes 28 and 375, West Hurley, N.Y., (845) 679-8217, maverickconcerts.org; tomorrow morning, $5; free for students and young people; tomorrow night and Sunday, $20; $5 for students. (Kozinn)SUMMERGARDEN (Sunday) The second of four concerts by the virtuosic young musicians of the Juilliard School is devoted to new works for string quartet by Reinaldo Moya, Roumen Balyozov, Dorothy Chang and Rolf Wallin. The performers are the Attacca Quartet: Amy Schroeder and Keiko Tokunaga, violinists; Gillian Gallagher, violist; Andrew Yee, cellist. At 8 p.m., Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden, Museum of Modern Art, (212) 708-9491, moma.org; free. (Kozinn)TANGLEWOOD (Tonight through Sunday; Wednesday and Thursday) Beethoven is in the spotlight this weekend at Tanglewood. Tonight Mark Elder conducts the Fourth Symphony; the Piano Concerto No. 3, with Imogen Cooper as soloist; and excerpts from "Fidelio," with the soprano Christine Brewer. Tomorrow Hans Graf leads Ms. Brewer in "Ah! Perfido" and the Beaux-Arts Trio in the Triple Concerto. On Sunday Jens Georg Bachmann conducts the "Emperor" Piano Concerto with Leon Fleisher and the Romance No. 2 with the violinist Daniel Hope. The focus turns to Bach on Wednesday, as Jos van Veldhoven leads the Netherlands Bach Society in the magnificent Mass in B minor, and, on Thursday, Bach's secular cantatas. Tonight and tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday nights at 8:30; Sunday at 2:30 p.m.; Lenox. Mass., (888) 266-1200, tanglewood.org; $9 to $89 tonight; $18 to $89 tomorrow and Sunday; $16 to $50 on Wednesday and Thursday. (Schweitzer)WASHINGTON SQUARE MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tuesday) This gutsy summer series has been putting on music in a busy urban park for almost half a century. Sometimes it's the music that catches your attention, but the audience for this casual event can be just as interesting. This program is for winds, strings and piano, with music by Rimsky-Korsakov, Mozart and Friedrich Kalkbrenner. At 8 p.m., Washington Square Park, Greenwich Village, (212) 252-3621, washingtonsquaremusicfestival.org; free. (Holland)The New York Philharmonic reached into its family tree and plucked Alan Gilbert, the 40-year-old son of two Philharmonic musicians, as its next music director, making him the first native New Yorker in the position and a rare American in the job.Philharmonic officials also said they would appoint an elder statesman, Riccardo Muti, 65, to serve in a supporting role equivalent to principal guest conductor.The decisions, to be formally announced at a news conference today, ended several years of speculation about who would succeed Lorin Maazel, who has two seasons left on his contract.Mr. Gilbert, who started an annual two-week stint as guest conductor last season, had long been a likely candidate. Orchestra officials said he appeared to be a front-runner at least a year ago, and that the decision crystallized in the spring."Every time he's come here, it's been better than the prior time," Zarin Mehta, the orchestra's president, said. "We've watched him grow. He's a good musician. He's approaching the prime of his career. He's young and a New Yorker, and he has family in the orchestra."Mr. Gilbert's mother, Yoko Takebe, is a violinist, and his father, Michael Gilbert, also a violinist, retired in 2001. A first cousin, Miki Takebe, is the Philharmonic's director of operations.Mr. Mehta offered Mr. Gilbert the job in a telephone call on July 2, and he is to be introduced to reporters this  morning. His contract, which starts in 2009, will run for 5 years and calls for 12 weeks of concerts a season.While pushing the limit for a baseball player, 42 will be a tender age for the music director of one of the world's major orchestras, especially the Philharmonic, where many musicians and concertgoers expect a seasoned maestro of major stature to occupy the podium.Several conductors in that category, like Daniel Barenboim and Mr. Muti, said they were not interested in the job. And the Philharmonic has turned to conductors in their early 40s before, like Zubin Mehta and Leonard Bernstein, the orchestra's first American-born music director since its founding conductor, Ureli Corelli Hill, in 1842. Mr. Maazel was born in Paris, but grew up  in the United States."Could we have gotten an older guy?" asked Paul B. Guenther, the orchestra's chairman. "Maybe, maybe not. But this is the right thing for the orchestra at this time in this city." He acknowledged that the choice is risky. "There are always risks," he said.Zarin Mehta and other Philharmonic officials presented the decision as a generational change. Mr. Maazel, the music director since 2002, is 77, and Kurt Masur, his predecessor, was 74 when he left that year.Mr. Mehta said that Mr. Gilbert's skills were above reproach and that he had other important qualities: fresh ideas, the ability to communicate and "that indefinable leadership quality that you look for."The orchestral landscape is also changing. Elder statesmen of the podium are a diminishing breed. The classical music world is in the grip of a debate about its relevance to society, with the corollary concern that younger audiences must be reached. Some orchestras are experimenting with two or three leaders. Others, like the Chicago Symphony and the Philadelphia Orchestra, have put off permanent decisions by hiring interim chiefs.New York may have come under pressure to hire a younger music director with the recent announcement by the Los Angeles Philharmonic that it had snapped up Gustavo Dudamel, a 26-year-old Venezuelan considered the hottest conducting property around.Mr. Gilbert's career has been rising rapidly since he became chief conductor of the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra in 2000. He has become a regular guest conductor at major orchestras. Next season he makes his debut at the Vienna State Opera in Bizet's "Carmen."His musical pedigree is excellent. He substituted as a violinist in the Philadelphia Orchestra (under Mr. Muti himself) while studying at the Curtis Institute of Music; became familiar with the Boston Symphony Orchestra while an undergraduate at Harvard; and was an assistant conductor for the Cleveland Orchestra for three years. He also has a conducting degree from the Juilliard School, having studied there with Otto-Werner Mueller.Mr. Gilbert made his New York Philharmonic debut in 2001; three years later he, Mr. Muti and David Robertson, now music director of the St. Louis Symphony, were all given regular guest-conducting stints in what was seen as something of a bake-off. Mr. Gilbert has conducted the Philharmonic in 31 concerts.Mr. Muti,  one of the orchestra's favorite guest conductors, is expected to spend about six to eight weeks a season with the orchestra and to lead tours. He will not have a formal contract. The Philharmonic appears to have backtracked from a plan disclosed in April to divide its leadership between a music director and a principal conductor.Mr. Muti was clearly the choice for the second position. "He just didn't want a title," Mr. Mehta said. "He's free, and he's Italian." Mr. Muti, in a statement, said that conducting the Philharmonic has been a highlight of his musical life.In an interview, Mr. Gilbert was unstinting in his praise for the orchestra. It was far too early, he said, to express any specific plans. He said he would like to see it "connecting with the city in a way that's really fresh and really alive and really current," and that his job was to keep the orchestra at its musical best.Mr. Gilbert's connection to New York will be a change from that of Mr. Maazel, who has been fairly removed from the life of the city. Mr. Gilbert said it was premature  to say whether he would move back to New York. His wife, Kajsa William-Olsson, is a cellist with the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic, and they have two young children."What I hope to do with the Philharmonic is continue to bank on the amazing abilities of the players," he said, "but also think about ways of working together, playing together, listening together, having a flexibility that happens in the moment and causes people to really listen in a fresh way."In Stockholm, Mr. Gilbert said, he was especially proud of his two-week festivals devoted to living composers. He has also ranged widely through the literature, from the central Germanic repertory of Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Schubert and Beethoven through contemporary Swedish composers.Swedish music critics have praised Mr. Gilbert's repertory choices and the liveliness of his performances. Reviewers here have been generally positive, too, noting the clarity of his textures, a decisiveness of musical line and a sensitivity to nuance.Mr. Gilbert is also known for constructing adventurous and interesting programs. "I prefer not to hammer the audience over the head with didactic thinking," he said. "I prefer to let them find their way. It should be possible, without juicing it up, to let the music help people tap into who they are."In Mr. Gilbert the Philharmonic has a true son of the orchestra and of New York. He grew up on the Upper West Side, attending the Ethical Culture School and Fieldston, a private school in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He attended Philharmonic concerts weekly as well as rehearsals, and accompanied his parents on tours. He was known as the child handing out passports. Many members have watched him grow up."I was this little orchestra brat who knew everybody," he said. "I find it still amazing that it's come to this."Orchestra officials and Mr. Gilbert said they were not worried that his emotional bond with the orchestra would interfere with his new role as their boss. "Ultimately the health of the organization has to take precedence over one particular person's feelings," Mr. Gilbert said.At his Philharmonic debut, he said, he was "keenly aware" of his mother's presence to his left, once calling out "Mom!" in jest when she came in a little late during a rehearsal. He said he was also aware of a supportive home-team feeling from the players. But those feelings faded with more performances."It's interesting how the work takes over, and the concentration of rehearsals is really all-encompassing," he said. The family dynamic will probably change, he added, "but hopefully it won't disappear."The New Orleans rapper Lil Wayne didn't make one of his regular boasts — that he's the "best rapper alive" — when he played his first headlining concert in New York City on Sunday night at the Beacon Theater. Maybe that's because New York is the home of Jay-Z, who hasn't fully retired. Or maybe it was because he had plenty else to brag about. The concert was sold out, its surprise guests included Kanye West (who recently played Giants Stadium as part of the Live Earth concert), and the eager audience knew every rhyme from Lil Wayne.In some ways, Lil Wayne is a prototypical Southern rapper. A decade ago, he and his fellow New Orleans rappers the Cash Money Millionaires popularized the term "bling," and on Sunday night he  arrived glittering with diamonds: in his teeth, around his neck, on his hands. The priorities in his songs are money — made through hustling drugs — and the sex it helps get.His lyrics are full of gun toting and dope smoking, and Lil Wayne, whose real name is Dwayne Michael Carter Jr., was arrested after the show and charged with possession of a weapon. The police said that officers smelled marijuana from his tour bus after it left the Beacon, stopped it and found Mr. Carter with a .40-caliber pistol.In his music, Lil Wayne goes well beyond the basics of "dirty South" hip-hop. His hoarse voice gives his songs a texture that's both weathered and slyly amused, for a glimmer of New Orleans R&B. He regularly changes up his delivery, borrowing Jamaican dancehall inflections or landing syllables on unlikely offbeats. He also has some quirky fixations: on food, on 1980s movies and on punning wordplay. Over the last few years, he has been ubiquitous, not only on his own albums but also on mixtapes and as a collaborator. He let the women in the audience enthusiastically sing the melody of "You," a 2006 single by Lloyd that had a guest rap by Lil Wayne.Unlike some rappers, Lil Wayne can work a stage as effectively as a studio. He arrived wearing a Run-DMC T-shirt — an homage to New York City hip-hop roots — though by the time the set ended, he was bare-chested, showing off his muscles. With a disc jockey supplying the ominous chords, deep bass throb and electronic blips of his tracks, he declaimed nearly two dozen songs — usually the first verse or two before moving on.The deep-growling Ja Rule joined him for their new collaboration "Uh-Oh" and went on to perform his own "New York," which boasts about being armed. (Ja Rule, whose name is Jeffrey Atkins, was arrested in a separate incident on Sunday night and charged with criminal possession of a weapon, a .40-caliber handgun.) A sidekick, Mac Maine, the rapper Juelz Santana and Lil Wayne's mentor, Birdman, also joined him onstage. And to prove he didn't need electronic help, Lil Wayne sang his new ballad "Prostitute Flange" (actually a love song) and rapped a cappella.He segued "1000 Degreez" into "Scarface" and did a raunchy new song over an associate's vocal beat-boxing. He repeatedly proclaimed his humility, profusely thanking the crowd, but he earned the applause. Afterward, the arrest made his mischievous songs slightly too realistic.LOS ANGELES, July 22  — Barry Weiss, the president of the Zomba Label Group, had been chatting with a guest at his label's recent party at the Ritual club here when he abruptly cut off conversation and strode toward the dance floor."That's Right," a song by one of the label's artists, Ciara, had just begun to play at ear-splitting volume, and Mr. Weiss decided to conduct some impromptu market research.Reaching for his glasses, he watched the partygoers dance as he stood off to one side of the darkened dance floor. "You can still get a feel" for how people will respond in clubs like this, Mr. Weiss said.After more than 25 years in the music business, he has come to trust his instincts more than ever. It fell to Mr. Weiss to guide Zomba after the company's creative mastermind, Clive Calder, sold it to Bertelsmann five years ago for $2.7 billion, cashing out just as the label's slate of teen pop stars like 'N Sync waned.Now, amid financial setbacks in the music industry, Zomba is on a hot streak again, with hits from performers like Justin Timberlake, R. Kelly and T-Pain, a rapper-turned-singer whose new CD surpassed Paul McCartney's last month to enter the Billboard chart at No. 1.It is quite a turnabout for Mr. Weiss, who was one of a handful of longtime Zomba executives to stay on at the company after 2002, even as critics crowed that the label would never again match its earlier success."We knew what people were thinking," he said in a rare interview recently. "We weren't like, 'Oh, my God! What's going to happen here?' We were too busy trying to stay afloat and stick to our knitting."Since the sale, Zomba, which includes Jive Records and the gospel label Verity, has managed to defy the industry's troubles by discovering new artists, like the R&B singer Chris Brown and the rockers Three Days Grace, while keeping costs down — a tough task in a field given to financial excess.Johnny Wright, a talent manager overseeing acts including Mr. Timberlake and the Backstreet Boys, remarked, "They overanalyze every penny that's spent to make sure it's not just frivolous money being thrown away."He added: "As a manager of an artist, you want a $2 million video budget. Do you really need one? At the time that you're involved in it, you're feeling a little frustrated," but "at the end of the day you've made a decent video, and you have an artist that's actually getting a royalty check."There is little argument that the label's sales and market share have slid sharply from their pinnacle during the teen pop sales surge; the industry itself has buckled under the weight of widespread piracy and other woes.But if any of the corporate-owned labels can be described as succeeding these days, Mr. Weiss's is one of the few. Zomba has increased its share of new-release sales almost 20 percent so far this year, even as sales of new albums industrywide have dropped 16.5 percent, according to Nielsen SoundScan data. It has remained consistently profitable, having generated more than $40 million in profit last year on well over $200 million in revenue, according to executives briefed on the label's business.Being part of a sprawling media empire has had certain advantages; a Bertelsmann reorganization three years ago shifted established stars like Usher and then-unknown artists like Ciara to Zomba's roster. But side businesses, including a studio-equipment rental service, that once bolstered Zomba's success have been sold.What remains at the center is Mr. Weiss, 48, who exudes a feverish energy even when sitting. Since his appointment  in 2002, he has taken pains to preserve the internal culture of the label; that has meant, in part, a preference for developing artists in-house rather than through ventures with outside talent finders.Zomba has kept its home in a bare-bones office building in the Chelsea section of Manhattan, apart from the big suites of higher-volume labels in Midtown.  It may face new challenges when it relocates to the Madison Avenue headquarters of its corporate parent these days, Sony BMG Music Entertainment, a move expected later this year."There's very little ego," said Max Martin, a Swedish producer behind hits for Ms. Spears and others. "When you meet a lot of other presidents," he said, declining to specify anyone, "you see lots of big offices, you see a lot of 'I'm the president of the record company.' That's the one thing I that I love about Barry and Jive in general, there's very little of that thing. It's a very tight group of people."The chairman of a competing record label, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that Zomba's reputation for frugality was sometimes overstated. Zomba may pour cash into important production and marketing expenses,  though "they're not going to send you a limousine just because you're going to get an ASCAP award," this executive said, referring to the American Society for Composers, Authors and Publishers, the industry professional group.Mr. Weiss makes no apologies, and suggests that some rival labels have chosen to whack away at their overhead costs — resulting in hundreds of layoffs — rather than take on the potentially more difficult pruning of day-to-day production and marketing expenses."On the one hand," he said, "they're laying off all these people from these companies to the point where you're cutting into the bone. But nobody's focusing on the fact that that album that should've cost $800,000 cost $2 million. Or the video that the egotistical president of the company decided to scrap, for $400,000, because they didn't like the color of the pants that the artist was wearing. Those things still kind of go on in the business."Mr. Weiss's education in music had begun decades before — at the side of his father, Hy, a music entrepreneur who in the 1950's built his own label, Old Town Records, which specialized in doo-wop, R&B and pop, recording hits by acts like the Solitaires.In addition to working with his father, Mr. Weiss promoted songs to radio stations in upstate New York while attending Cornell. In 1982, Mr. Calder, a South African expatriate, hired him as one of the upstart label's first employees in the United States, where he struck upon early success pushing acts including A Flock of Seagulls and Billy Ocean.Mr. Weiss stoked Mr. Calder's early interest in rap music at a time when major music labels largely dismissed the genre, and oversaw the signing of the rap act Whodini, one of a series of hit makers that also included KRS-One and Too Short.By the time Mr. Weiss worked his way up to become Mr. Calder's right-hand man, Zomba had expanded to become the biggest independent record label in the world,  turning Ms. Spears, a former Mouseketeer, and The Backstreet Boys into superstars.In 2002, Mr. Calder cashed in, exercising a contract option that required Bertelsmann to buy out his share of Zomba at a premium based on the success of the teen pop acts and other big discoveries. Then he  all but vanished from the music landscape.So, too, has the old way of doing business. In the jubilant days of 2000, 'N Sync shattered a record by selling 2.4 million copies of its "No Strings Attached" album in a single week  —  more than the combined sum of the top 50  titles on the current edition of Billboard's weekly sales chart.Now, labels are scrambling to offset plunging CD sales by cobbling profits from bite-size products like ring tones and digital downloads. Indeed, more than 40 percent of Zomba's revenue from new releases through the first half of this year came from digital sales.Mr. Weiss said that has made it all the more important for labels to sign artists with commercial potential; Jive has had a particular ear for street-savvy R&B that can attract mainstream pop fans."The margin for error has been greatly reduced," he said, "and the winners don't pay for the losers the way they used to."With the right songs, he added, the label can generate a profit even without a gold album. When the rap newcomer Huey released his first album last month, for example, it sold fewer than 29,000 copies the first week. But Huey's hit single, "Pop, Lock &  Drop It," had already turned into a radio hit, fueling sales of more than two million downloads and ring tones, the latter typically costing as much as $2.50 each. By keeping costs low, the label was already in the black when the album reached shops, Zomba executives said.Mr. Weiss's talents as a manager were on display one recent night at the House of Blues in West Hollywood, where a group of Jive executives and he had gathered to watch a set by T-Pain. Stars from competing labels, Akon and Busta Rhymes, unexpectedly clambered onstage to join T-Pain, sending the already giddy crowd into bliss.Upstairs, Mr. Weiss danced with colleagues and made no attempt to conceal his delight at the scene of screaming fans. "And the good news?" he said. "It didn't cost us anything."JEFF TWEEDY, 39, is the lyricist, lead singer and guitarist of the Chicago rock band Wilco. In the last decade, as it has shifted from alt-country to rock, Wilco has built a devoted fan base. This spring  its sixth studio album, "Sky Blue Sky" (Nonesuch), had a strong debut, ranking No. 4 on the Billboard charts the week of its release.  Mr. Tweedy recently took a brief break from touring Europe, the West Coast and the Midwest to talk to Winter Miller. "I'm probably the only person that wanted to be a rock critic and failed at it and started a band," he said. As he coasted along Montrose Avenue in Chicago, Mr. Tweedy shared what he's been listening to and why.Dr. DogAlmost everything about Dr. Dog and the way they sound draws on my favorite stuff on earth. They've got elements of the Band, the Beatles, the Beach Boys — all the bands that begin with B. This record sounds really mature and accomplished. I was astonished when I heard "We All Belong" (Park the Van). They're very irreverent, but they've really studied their stuff. They're a working band. They sing out, they sing with gusto, which isn't something that I hear a lot these days, especially in younger bands. They sound like real singers, people that really love to sing, as opposed to people that you kind of wonder why they're singing. Maybe I fall into that category sometimes. There's a certain drunkenness to their music that I usually find unappealing in other bands,  but it's contagious the way they do it.Grizzly BearI read a lot about this band but resisted based on the snide expression on a couple of their faces in a magazine. I can't get past those first impressions easily. There's so much music to listen to, so you narrow it down any way you can. I've missed out on a lot of stuff (probably based on arbitrary facial displeasure). They make really beautiful, evocative music that has a gauzy fuzziness to it; you can't accurately pinpoint their place in time. Their music is like a painting by Monet;  there's something soft about it. There's an awesome piano sound throughout the record. "The Yellow House" (Warp) reminds me of being in my old bedroom at my parents' house, feeling sort of a blissful loneliness. I like records that have their own internal logic, their own universe. This feels like a fully formed world, a real place that I'm not a part of but I get to visit.BattlesIf I'm going to listen to math rock, I want it to have a pedigree. I don't put much stock in classifications, but all these guys have been in math-rock bands so it's a math-rock supergroup. "Mirrored" (Warp) is music that sounds like you have to be really smart to remember how to play it. A lot of counting, odd time signatures, odd lengths of measures. It requires the ability to count out a lot of musical subdivisions. I recommend the video of the song "Atlas." It's really smart dance music. I don't tend to dance, so I enjoy listening to the technical side of what they're doing. A lot of music classified as math rock is maybe cold and technical.  But this record has a sense of excitement and whimsy that contrasts in an intriguing way with how regimented the rhythm has to be.A Hawk and a HacksawI followed this band because Jeremy Barnes used to be in a band called Neutral Milk Hotel, and I loved their records. This group has made at least one or two other records. "A Hawk and a  Hacksaw" (Leaf) was a collaboration with the Hun Hangár Ensemble. It has a cymbalon, which is like a piano played like a hammered dulcimer. I actually bought a cymbalon in Hamburg, Germany, on tour and had to find a way to ship it back home. It has a broken string, so we're still looking for someone who could repair it. I listen to a lot of folk music from around the world. I don't know the background of everyone in this group, but the music has a freshness to it. Just love that cymbalon, can't get enough of it.Panda BearIt's hard to get any biographical information straight about Panda Bear and the rest of the guys in the band Animal Collective, so I don't know much other than the records. I did see Animal Collective once a few years ago and was pretty astonished at how great they were and how powerfully lost they would get in everything they were doing. It was inspiring, one of the more memorable shows I've seen in the last five years. Panda Bear (I still have trouble saying the name seriously) has made a beautiful record. There's some sort of internal logic to "Person Pitch" (Paw Tracks) that you only experience by listening to it. The easy critical shorthand to describe it is a Brian Wilson-Phil Spector-influenced wall of sound, but it's much more trance inducing than those polished pop nuggets. It's more like girl-group music or Beach Boys music as meditative, droning mantras. It's a fantastic record.There are several ways of defining and measuring an era, but an excellent place  to start is by checking out the media of the day and what they could or could  not do at the moment. For example, when sound recording first came along, the  singers belted into it as if performing to an empty stadium. The name that  springs to mind is Caruso, the world's biggest voice. But with the coming of  microphones in the 1920s, singing became more personal, and the name became Bing  Crosby, the world's friendliest voice. So songs became brisker and less  operatic, to suit not only the mike but the piano rack and the record cabinet.  In short, the familiar thirty-two-bar song, which now seems to have been fixed  in the stars, was actually fixed by the practicalities of sheet-music publishing  and confirmed by the limitations of ten-inch records.Or one might define an era in terms of women's fashions and the consequent rise  of impulse dancing on improvised dance floors. You can't really jitterbug in a  hoopskirt or bustle. Swing follows costume, and the big news was that by the  1910s skirts had become just loose enough and short enough to liberate the  wearer from the tyranny of twirling through eternal waltzes in ballrooms as big  as basketball courts, and freed her to do fox-trots and anything else that could  be done in short, quick steps on, if necessary, living room floors with rugs  rolled up. So that's what the boys wrote for next. By the 1920s, the whole lower  leg could swing out in Charlestons and other abandoned exercises. Songwriters  celebrated that with a decade of fast-rhythm numbers. This has always been a  dancing country, and never more so than in the Depression, when people trucked  their blues away in marathons, or in seedy dance halls. "Ten Cents a Dance" was  better than no income at all. And the Lindy Hop was as good as a gym class too.And so on, through the arrival of women's slacks in the late 1930s and their  increased popularity in World War II for both work and play-Rosie the Riveter  could jitterbug on her lunch break without leaving the floor. All she needed was  a beat. Which brings us with a final bump and a grinding halt to rock and roll  and the totally free-form dancing of today, which can be done with no clothes at  all to a beat in your own head while you're watching something else on  television.The huge, nonnegotiable gap between then and now is that in the past, music and  dancing had always been disciplined by something or other. There had always been  rules for doing it right, and even the wildest flights of swing and swing  dancing had rested on a bed of piano lessons and dance lessons, and dress codes  as well. Cab Calloway in a zoot suit was still a dressy man, a dandy; Cab  Calloway in jeans or shorts over his knees would not have been dressed at all in  the old sense. Going out dancing used to be an event, like going to church.  Today all that remains are the rituals of prom night, which must seem weirder  every year.The era might also be measured in demographics or political cycles or even  weather patterns. But the brilliant strand of music that, running through Irving  Berlin and George Gershwin, has become the music of the standards began with a  bang-with pianos being hoisted into tenements, a magnificent and noisy event,  and it ended with guitars being schlepped quietly, almost parenthetically, into  ranch houses and split-levels to herald the arrival of the great non-event that  has been with us ever since.But first the bang, then the whimper. There was no way of receiving such an  impressive object as a piano quietly in such close quarters. Whether it bounced  up the staircase or jangled its way over the fire escape and in through the  window, the neighbors knew about it all right, and would be reminded again every  time Junior hit the keys and shook the building. Short of a Rolls-Royce or  carriage and horses, there was never such a status symbol, with the consequence  that although "all the families around us were poor," said Harry Ruby, "they all  had pianos." For such important matters, time-payments were born.So the parents went into hock and found room for the damn thing someplace, and  artistic Darwinism did the rest. You buy a piano for Ira Gershwin, and George is  the one who plays it, although sometimes you had to live through a week of hell  to learn this. As anyone knows who has ever housed a child and a piano, every  tot who walks through the door will bang the bejesus out of the new toy for a  few minutes, get bored, and come back, and back again, and bang some more, but  then successively less and less until the dust starts to move in and claim  it.... Unless the child finds something interesting in the magic box, a familiar  tune that stammers to life under his fingers, or a promising and unfamiliar one;  a chord that sounds good, and rolls out into a respectable arpeggio as well,  with, saints be praised, a bass line that actually works for a bar or two-after  which a gifted kid with an instrument is like a teenager with his first car and  a tank full of gas. Where to, James: Charleston, Chattanooga, or Kalamazoo?  Two-steps, or concertos, or parts unknown?"Well, he'll probably settle down eventually," hoped the parents who had only  bought the thing for the sake of respectability and maybe for some civilized  graces around here. It speaks wonders for those parents in that era that they  knew that being a famous lawyer or doctor wasn't enough in life. If you weren't  a person of cultivation, you were still a bum.But some of the kids insisted on being bums anyway, and sometimes the piano only  made them worse. There were low-life uses for the instrument as well as high,  and all the classical music lessons the parents could shout for weren't always  enough to keep Junior out of the gutter, especially once ragtime had come along,  in Frank Loesser's phrase, "to fill the gutters in gold." Talk about subversive  -not even Elvis Presley rolling his hips had as many parents and preachers up  and howling and sending for the exorcism unit as ragtime did. After all, not too  many kids have hips like Elvis's, but anyone who could play "Chopsticks" or  whistle "The Star-Spangled Banner" could syncopate, and in no time, as Irving  Berlin bragged in two of his hits, "Everybody's doing it" in one form or  another, from "Italian opera singers" learning to snap their fingers, to "dukes  and lords and Russian czars," who settled for throwing their shoulders in the  air and no doubt rolling their eyes. And there was no place to hide from it,  even in an ivory tower. In fact, it would become a staple of B-movie musicals to  show a professor at first frowning mightily as he hears the kids jazzing up a  well-known classic, only to furtively wind up, beneath the gown or the desk,  tapping his own foot too, as if the body snatchers had seized that much of him.  And if the "professoriate" and the "long hairiate" couldn't stand up to it, the  kid at the keyboard wasn't even going to try. Because this is where ragtime  belonged, its birthplace, its office and its home, and the great Scott Joplin  was still making tunes out of it, which maybe they could use in place of  Czerny's finger exercises while no one was listening."What's that you're playing? That's not what you're supposed to be playing."  Someone was always listening, and one imagines a thousand fights a day over this  as George or Harold or Fats would stray once more from his scales and his  Bach-made-easy and start to vamp the music of his pulse, the music of the  streets.Well, just because everybody was doing it didn't make it right. But remember:  There was no other living music around except the music of the streets; there  were no radios or records, or even talking pictures. Unless your parents took  you to the theater, like Jerome Kern's, or to concerts, like no one I can think  of, "good" music only existed in the form of hieroglyphs on a page, which meant  that in effect it was a dead language, and a growing child could not survive on  dead languages alone. So they listened instead to the sounds that seeped out of  the vaudeville house rear windows and under the doors of taverns, and to the  riffs of the barrel organs and ice cream trucks playing "Nola" and "The Whistler  and His Dog," and from the upstairs windows of the tenements themselves, where  seditious neighbors had actually acquired the latest sheet music and couldn't  wait to bang it out on their new pianos, for the rest of the community to swing  to and curse.But perhaps the most effective medium for spreading the new music around were  the average absentminded whistlers and hummers whose names were legion in those  days, and still semi-legion when I was growing up in the 1940s and '50s. In  fact, I have a vague feeling I was one myself. Anyway, you had little choice  about it. If you knew the music, you whistled it, as if all the backed-up melody  in your head was forcing its way out through your mouth like steam from a  kettle. And this medium was no respecter of class or location either. As late as  the 1950s, you could still hear respectable bankers and businessmen in stark  colors and homburg hats whistling their way to work like newsboys or Walt  Disney's dwarves. The very last time I heard a recognizable tune being whistled  all the way through, it turned out to be coming from a natty distinguished  senior in the next booth of a men's room who was whistling while he whatever. By  that point in time, this man's whistling had become the only sound in a quiet  building, like a trumpet blowing "Taps" over an empty battlefield, but imagine  how that whistle sounded for the first time, back in the days when the natty old  man was still a scruffy old boy adding his two cents' worth to the noise of the  whistling businessmen and the cheerful whine of the calliopes and the soughs of  violins being scraped on street corners.And then imagine how it all sounded to that other small boy trying to get  serious at the piano, but tempted like sin by the sounds of freedom outside, all  of which, from the barrel organ to the guy on the corner trying to make a buck  from his fiddle or harmonica, was at that moment syncopated. And it all went  into Junior's ears and hands and came out again, jumbled perhaps with Mr.  Mozart's music or whoever was on the rack that day for him to torture, and maybe  with some verbal help from the wise guy next door, the result might be a song  that someday might sell like hotcakes and cross the ocean too, until the whole  world was playing and whistling it and some of the bums whose parents had  despaired of them became very rich indeed, and the parents frowned and learned  to tap their feet too, and moved uptown, where, thanks to their one very shrewd  investment in a musical black box, they'd never have to work again. The piano  lessons might have been wasted, but the hooky lessons were pure gold.Or were the piano lessons really wasted? One of the proudest claims made for the  American standards is that they were good music written by real musicians,  however they got there, whether by studying at the best schools, like Kern and  Rodgers, or by just listening, like Irving Berlin. Berlin never did learn the  piano, but could spot a wrong note on the next block.The school of "just listening" received an endorsement from the arrival of jazz  in those years. The best jazz musicians created intricate harmonies without  benefit of pencil or paper-disciplines that could take years to master at  school. Classical lessons were still useful because they taught good from bad  and what was good about good.But playing hooky was vital-not just at the piano, playing Chopin and Brahms in  ragtime, but playing hooky from the piano, just walking around and listening to  the music of the city itself, which was experiencing a creative transformation  right under these players' ears.The same wave of good luck that had brought so many eastern European Jews to New  York had also brought enough Southern blacks to mount a Harlem renaissance, and  just like that, two of the principal ingredients had arrived. The standards have  actually been referred to as a Jewish response to black music, but this  definition is a loaded compliment that neither party has rushed to claim. With  such praise, Jews never know whether to take a bow or duck. In a safe house like  this book, it is the highest compliment I can think of. But in the mouth of a  WASP supremacist like Henry Ford, "Jewish" meant un-American and subversive, so  don't wave that compliment around or it might explode; and for blacks it just  meant more of the minstrel-show syndrome. There go those darkies, making music  again, haven't they got a great sense of rhythm? As outsiders, both Jews and  blacks had been positively expected to entertain, but when they did so, it  automatically became a second-class thing to do. Show biz in general was the  ultimate club that accepted Groucho Marx and invited his scorn.Music is not produced by whole groups, but by one genius at a time, and it may  be significant that the two families that gave us Irving Berlin and George  Gershwin both fled Russia on the same great wave of czarist pogroms, only to  find American black people not only singing about a similar experience, but  using the Hebrew Bible as their text.Blacks, too, had been to heaven and back. They had found the promised land in  the form of emancipation, and for a few giddy years the taste of freedom had  been all the milk and honey they needed. But when they (and the white man) woke  up, they realized nothing much had changed. The slaves had been moved to another  part of the ledger. They would still be working for the boss, the pharaoh, but  they would have to look for their own food and lodging now and pay for it out of  their still-empty pockets. And somehow the boss seemed to have multiplied to  include any white man who wanted a shoe shine or simply a glass of water. Just  say the word "boy" to any African American, even today, and he'll  remember. Excerpted from The House That George Built by Wilfrid Sheed  Copyright © 2007 by Wilfrid Sheed. Excerpted by permission. All rights reserved. No part of this excerpt may be reproduced or reprinted without permission in writing from the publisher. Excerpts are provided by Dial-A-Book Inc. solely for the personal use of visitors to this web site.ComedyBAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts Long Island Comedy Festival: Comedians from New York City perform. July 28 at 8 p.m. $25.FilmBAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts The Best of the B-movies: "Westworld," featuring Yul Brenner. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. $5. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101.HUNTINGTON Cinema Arts Center "Vitus," a film about a child piano prodigy who wants to be an ordinary boy, directed by Fredi M. Murer. "Ten Canoes," a film about ancient Aborigines of Australia. "Talk to Me," a portrait of the radio host Ralph Waldo "Petey" Greene, featuring Don Cheadle. Through July 28. "Flying: Confessions of a Free Woman." The filmmaker Jennifer Fox examines her own life in this two-part documentary. July 29 at 11 a.m. (Parts 1 and 2); July 30 at 7 p.m. (Part 1); July 31 at 7 p.m. (Part 2). Cinema Arts Center, 423 Park Avenue. (631) 423-7611.SOUTHAMPTON Parrish Art Museum "Touch the Sound," a documentary about the deaf percussionist Evelyn Glennie, who won a Grammy award. Friday at 8 p.m. $7; members, $5. Parrish Art Museum, 25 Job's Lane. (631) 283-2118, Ext. 32.For ChildrenEAST HAMPTON Guild Hall Imagination Station; children create art projects during this three part program. Ages 5 to 8. Part 1, Wednesday, 4 to 5 p.m. $55; members, $45. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050.GREENPORT Mitchell Park Fourth Annual Southold Mother's Club Children's Festival: Brady Rymer and the Little Band That Could perform music for children and families. All ages. July 29 at 2 and 4 p.m. Free. Mitchell Park, Front Street. (917) 334-6639.HUNTINGTON Caumsett State Historic Park Caumsett Summer Cultural Arts Festival: "From Moo to You." Children learn about cows and the history of the local dairy industry and taste fresh-made ice cream. All ages. July 28 at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Free. Caumsett State Historic Park, 25 Lloyd Harbor Road. (631) 423-1770.OAKDALE CM Performing Arts Center "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory," a live stage performance. July 28 at 2 p.m. $9. CM Performing Arts Center, 931 Montauk Highway. (631) 218-2810.RIVERHEAD Dinosaur Walk Museum "Ancient Eggs," exhibition of fossilized dinosaur eggs. "Primordial Sea," display of dinosaur fossils. Through Sept. 3. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Dinosaur Walk Museum, 221 East Main Street. (631) 369-6556.RIVERHEAD Long Island Science Center Astronomy; children learn about constellations and stars and make a star finder. Glow-in-the-dark activities. Ages 4 and up. Through July 22. $2; children, $5. Long Island Science Center, 11 West Main Street. (631) 208-8000.WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center "The Wizard of Oz," live musical performance. All ages. Friday at 7 p.m. $12. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500.Music and DanceBAY SHORE Dr. King's Park Tuesday Brown Bag Concert Series: Glen Roethel performs acoustic pop music. Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. Free. Dr. King's Park, Main Street. (631) 224-5420.BELLEROSE Fuzzy's Pub Wes Houston performs vintage American music with a six-piece band. Sunday at 3 p.m. $3. Fuzzy's Pub, 239-21 Braddock Avenue. (718) 347-9616.CUTCHOGUE Castello di Borghese Vineyard 2007 Wine Press Concert Series: Hugh Prestwood and friends perform country music. July 28 at 6 p.m. $15. Castello di Borghese Vineyard, County Road 48 and Alvah's Lane. (631) 734-5111.EAST MEADOW Eisenhower Park Lakeside Theater Presents Summer Concerts: African American Night. July 22 at 7:30 p.m. Free. Eisenhower Park, Merrick and Stewart Avenues. (516) 572-0218.GREAT RIVER Bayard Cutting Arboretum State Park 2007 New York State Parks Summer Concert Series: The Lone Sharks, rockabilly. July 22 at 2 p.m. Free. Swingtime Big Band, performing American standards. July 29 at 2 p.m. Free; parking fee, $6. Bayard Cutting Arboretum State Park, 440 Montauk Highway. (631) 224-5420.LONG BEACH Long Beach Boulevard Beach Mary Lamont performs country music. July 28 at 8 p.m. Free. Long Beach Boulevard Beach, (516) 431-1000,  Ext. 224.LONG BEACH Neptune Boulevard Beach Long Beach 2007 Summer Concert Series: Vincent Roccaro sings Bobby Darin. Thursday at 8 p.m. Free. Neptune Boulevard Beach, Neptune Boulevard. (516) 431-1000, Ext. 321.LONG BEACH New York Avenue Beach Long Beach 2007 Summer Concert Series: High Tides Reggae. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Free. New York Avenue Beach, New York Avenue. (516) 431-1000, Ext. 321.SAG HARBOR Old Whalers Church "Mystic Whaler," Don Sineti concert. Thursday at 8 p.m. Free. Old Whalers Church, Union Street. (631) 725-0894.SOUTHOLD Silversmith's Corner Summer Showcase Concert Series: Galaxy, a vocal trio, will perform. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Silversmith's Corner, Town Green on Main Road. (631) 765-1800.WESTBURY North Fork Theater K. C. and the Sunshine Band, Gloria Gaynor and the Family Stone. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $61.50. Norman Foote performs songs and tells stories. Wednesday at 11 a.m. $15. Boz Scaggs performs his hits. July 28 at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $66.50. North Fork Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800.WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center John Pizzarelli performs "Dear Mr. Sinatra," an evening of songs made famous by Frank Sinatra. Sunday at 8:30 p.m. $45 to $75. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500.Outdoors OYSTER BAY Planting Fields Arboretum State Historic Park Long Island Summer Festival, presented by Friends of Art: Dave Brubeck and Sons, July 28 at 8 p.m.; Linda Ronstadt and Jimmy Webb, Aug. 18 at 8 p.m.; and others. Through Aug. 29. $35 to $140. Planting Fields Arboretum State Historic Park, 1395 Planting Fields Road. (516) 922-9200.GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum "AirPlay." Take part in an air race and navigate air mazes. Through Sept. 2, Tuesday through Friday, at 10 a.m. $9; $8 seniors. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. (516) 224-5800.GLEN COVE Morgan Park Morgan Park Summer Music Festival: "Damn Yankees," presented by Plaza Productions. July 22. An Evening of Eclectic Contemporary Dance. July 28. The Soft Parade, a tribute to Jim Morrison and the Doors. July 29. All free. Morgan Park, Germaine Street and Landing Road. (516) 671-0017.HUNTINGTON Heckscher Park 42nd Annual Huntington Summer Arts Festival, featuring music and performance. Through Aug. 19 at 8:30 p.m.; 7:30 p.m., Tuesdays. Free. No show on Mondays. Heckscher Park, Main Street and Prime Avenue. (631) 271-8423.Spoken WordDIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts The New Writers Series: "Dating Disasters Five," writers read selections about the good and the bad of dating. Thursday through July 28 at 7:30 p.m. $15; students and seniors, $10. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148.HUNTINGTON Book Revue The author and meteorologist Bill Evens will talk about his novel "Category 7." Monday at 8 p.m. Book Revue, 313 New York Avenue. (631) 271-1442.TheaterEAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Main Stage Theater "The Killing of Sister George," a comedy by Frank Marcus. Through Aug. 5. $18 and $22.  8:30 p.m., Fridays and Saturdays; 3 p.m., Sunday. Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674.EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Second Stage Theater "The Tale of the Allergist's Wife," by Charles Busch. Marjorie, the wife of a philanthropic allergist, is engulfed in a life crisis. Through Aug. 26. $18 and $22.  9 p.m., Friday and Saturday; 3 p.m., Sunday. Arena Players Second Stage Theater, 294 Route 109. (516) 293-0674.ELMONT BroadHollow Theater "High School Musical," presented by the BroadHollow Theater Company. Through Sunday. $18 and $20; students, $4. "Footloose," musical based on 1980's movie. Through July 29. $14 to $25. BroadHollow Theater, 700 Hempstead Turnpike. (631) 581-2700.HUNTINGTON Caumsett State Historic Park Caumsett Summer Cultural Arts Festival: Shakespeare's "Hamlet." Wednesday at 6 p.m. Free. Caumsett State Historic Park, 25 Lloyd Harbor Road. (631) 423-1770.LINDENHURST Studio Theater "See How They Run," directed by Marian Waller, presented by the BroadHollow Theater Company. Through Sunday. $18 to $22; children, $14. Studio Theater, 141 South Wellwood Avenue. (631) 581-2700.LONG BEACH Long Beach Public Library Shakespeare's "Hamlet," presented by Plaza Theatrical Productions. July 28 at 2:30 p.m. Free. Long Beach Public Library, 111 West Park Avenue. (516) 432-7201.OAKDALE CM Performing Arts Center "All Shook Up," featuring the music of Elvis Presley. Through July 29. $18 and $22; students, $16. CM Performing Arts Center, 931 Montauk Highway. (631) 218-2810.PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts "Dreamgirls." The musical follows the story of a young female singing trio called "the Dreams," who become music superstars. Through July 28. $38 and $40. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313.PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three "West Side Story," the modern musical adaptation of Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet." Through Aug. 11. $20 to $28. "The Fairy Princess," a play for children. Through July 29. $8. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100.WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Avi Hoffman's "Too Jewish, Too!" An exploration of Jewish comedy and music. July 29 at 8:30 p.m. $40 to $60. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500.Museums and GalleriesCOLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum "Toys, Kids and Boats," exhibition of children's toys from the whaling era. Through Aug. 31. $4; seniors and students, $3; children under 5, free. Whaling Museum, Rt. 25A. (631) 367-3418.CUTCHOGUE Castello di Borghese Vineyard "On the Edge: Workers on the Waterfront," photos of Greenpoint's water workers. Through Sept. 1. Castello di Borghese Vineyard, County Road 48 and Alvah's Lane. (631) 734-5111.DIX HILLS Jeanie Tengelsen Gallery "White as Color." Artists explore the color white. Through Aug. 12. Jeanie Tengelsen Gallery, 107 East Deer Park Road. (631) 462-5400.EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall "Dan Flavin: An Intimate View," works from the late 1960's. Through July 29. $5; $4, seniors and students; free, members. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050.EAST HAMPTON The Drawing Room Costantino Nivola, sculptures. Through Aug. 13. Hours: Mondays and Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Drawing Room, 16R Newtown Lane. (631) 324-5016.EAST ISLIP Islip Art Museum "Site Specifics '07," an exhibition of installations and mixed media work. Through July 29. "Free Play," art that explores fantasy. Through Sept. 9. $5. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Islip Art Museum, 50 Irish Lane. (631) 224-5402.GREENPORT The South Street Gallery Paintings by Michael Patterson. Through Aug. 21. The South Street Gallery, 18 South Street. (631) 477-0021.ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art "Dreams on Canvas: Surrealism in Europe and America."  "Art to Touch," three-dimensional glass reproductions of works by Matisse, Marin and others.   "The Music of Regret and Other Works," photographs by Laurie Simmons. All through Aug. 12. $10; seniors, $8; children, $4. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337.SOUTHAMPTON Bravura Art and Objects "Marilyn Arnold Palley: Totem Sculptures." Through July 31. "Debra Yates: Contemporary Works," paintings. Through July 31. Hours: Daily, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Bravura Art and Objects, 22 Nugent Street. (631) 259-2605.SOUTHAMPTON Parrish Art Museum "Studio as Muse," three exhibitions that explore the artist's studio. Through Aug. 5. "Project Hot Shot," exhibition of photographic portraits, food, drinks and a digital photo booth. July 28 at 8 p.m. $7; members, $5. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Parrish Art Museum, 25 Job's Lane. (631) 283-2118, Ext. 32.STONY BROOK Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages "William Sidney Mount: The Education of an Artist," Mount paintings are paired with works that inspired them. Through Sept. 30. "Spectacular Achievements: Audubon's Animals of North America," exhibit of John James Audubon's lithographic work. Through Oct. 21. $6 and $7; students, $3. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages, 1200 Route 25A. (631) 751-0066.
