PUT the words "Connecticut" and "garage" together, and most people see visions of weed whackers and garden hoses, not long-haired guys with guitars.But chances are that's about to change.On Feb. 19, the much fetishized reissue label Sundazed Music released "Don't Press Your Luck! The In Sounds of 60's Connecticut," an album  that reaches back to a time not everybody remembers, but that anyone with a fondness for fuzzed-up guitar and suburban psychedelia will want to get to know."Back in the 60s, each geographical area had its own sound — like in Los Angeles, it was the sound of the Byrds," said Bob Irwin, the album producer and owner of Sundazed, based in Coxsackie, N.Y.  "What came out of Connecticut were these super-great garagey cuts with killer guitar. You can hear the influence of blue-eyed soul from Long Island, threads of the Rascals and the Vagrants. But what's in the water in a specific place comes out on a record when you do an excavation like this. It makes my heart pound."Music — freewheeling rock 'n' roll represented by long-forgotten New Haven-area bands like the Shags, the Bram Rigg Set and the Wildweeds — is what got the hearts of the teenagers featured on "Don't Press Your Luck!" pounding; something the CD, available at www.sundazed.com, puts across within the first few speaker-thumping tracks.But corralling and guiding those heavy heartbeats, Mr. Irwin said, was a single player: Thomas "Doc" Cavalier, founder of the still-running Trod Nossel Studios in Wallingford. Before Mr. Cavalier died of pancreatic cancer in 2005, Mr. Irwin made a deal with him to secure the masters for hundreds of songs, including the 22 that landed on the CD.Mr. Cavalier's daughter, Darlene Cavalier, now runs Trod Nossel, which means "tree of many branches" in Scandinavian, with two of her three siblings, Tom and Rob Cavalier.  "My dad was a dentist in Hamden," she said. "That's how we grew up, living above the dentist's office. That's why people called him Doc. He started the studio in 1965, while he was still doing dentistry.""Not to brag about him, but Dad was so smart, such a passionate person," she said. "He got bored with being a dentist. He wanted to put out a record."Enter the Shags, a four-piece band  formed in 1963 at Notre Dame High School in West Haven that  developed a following through wedding gigs and show openers at the Oakdale Theater, now the Chevrolet Theater, in Wallingford."We wore three-piece suits with vests, pointed boots. Our hair was long," said Tom Violante, the onetime front man, now a part-time musician and part-time marketing consultant in New Haven. "People referred to us as the Beatles of Connecticut. But back then everybody sounded the same, because we all wanted to sound like the Beatles."Among Connecticut bands we had no equal, though, and that was thanks to Doc. He pushed us in the studio to do better. He worked with us on our stage presence. He took us to New York to have designer outfits made for us."By 1966, The Shags were radio staples on WAVZ in New Haven and WDRC in Hartford courtesy of songs like "Don't Press Your Luck" and "Breathe in My Ear," included on the new CD (which is also available as an LP).Mr. Violante remembers hanging around the Cavaliers' home with his bandmates for spaghetti dinners: "We practically grew up there," he said. And Ms. Cavalier remembers a pattern forming once the Shags entered her family's life."Everyone who had a project in this area Dad got involved with. He didn't just manage bands or produce bands, he helped them with their finances, he helped them with their divorces. He really cared. Trod Nossel was a catalyst for all the music that happened around here."Names like Fourth Ryke, a band whose origins Mr. Irwin and Sundazed were unable to distill, may not resonate the way names like the Animals and the Righteous Brothers do, but not every act represented on "Don't Press Your Luck!" is steeped in obscurity. Al Anderson, leader of the R&B-leaning, Windsor-based Wildweeds, for example, went on to form the popular alt-country band NRBQ."Even at 17 or 18, Al Anderson was writing material that gives you goose bumps," Mr. Irwin said. "He was just plugged into the cosmos, even as a teenager."Together with Mr. Cavalier, Mr. Violante and a few others, he spawned something like a musical cyclone, Mr. Irwin said."What happened was, once you have a band in a locality hit pay dirt, it makes every other person in a band in that area want to make a hit," he said. "All the pieces were in place, and Connecticut just zoomed."Mr. Violante, who now plays in a Jimmy Buffett cover band called Key West Trio, regrets that it died down: "I've always felt that we should have been more recognized. I'm amazed it took 42 years to get a CD of what was going on here out there. But I'm also very flattered. It's tremendous what they've done with this record."THE game is constantly afoot in Benjamin Britten's "Peter Grimes." Everyone, it seems, is hunting for something or someone in this opera, most spectacularly in the third and last act, when the entire little fishing community on the harsh North Sea coast of England transforms itself into a vicious mob on the track of Grimes himself, "the borough criminal" who must be caught and destroyed. One of the most terrifying scenes in opera, it is likely to chill audiences once more when the Metropolitan Opera unveils its new staging on Thursday evening. This is the company's third production since it introduced this compelling work in 1948, just three years after the world premiere at the Sadler's Wells Opera in London.Before that final manhunt drives Grimes into the sea to find peace at last, many other searches have been under way, among them his own clumsy attempts to find acceptance in a suspicious society that shuts him out because he lives alone, has odd habits, looks a bit wild and talks strangely. "His song alone would sour the beer," his neighbors comment. Then there is the prying inquest into the death of his last apprentice, followed by the wretched Grimes's search for a new young helper that inevitably sends him down a path to fresh tragedy.Ellen Orford and Captain Balstrode, the only two souls in town who harbor a measure of sympathy for Grimes, constantly look for ways to ease his pain, remove barriers and clear up misunderstandings. They fail, and the community continues its relentless pursuit. These people are fisher-folk by nature as well as by trade, and the metaphor turns up in countless guises.The opera's last questing image is that of an anonymous fisherman scanning the horizon with a telescope as he spots Grimes's sinking boat. Nobody cares, life goes on, and no doubt a new hunt will soon begin."Peter Grimes," most would agree, is opera's classic study of the isolated, misunderstood, rejected individual: a man who is feared, even hated, because he is different and doesn't fit in. It's a recurrent theme in Britten's operas, but he never explored it with quite the explicitness and precision that he does in  "Peter Grimes," nor within a social environment so startlingly realistic.Exactly why Peter is so totally rejected by his peers has always been a subject of conjecture, and the answers have changed over the years. "Who is Peter Grimes?" many early critics of the opera asked, and few had definitive answers. Nearly all of them were familiar with the opera's source, a long poem by George Crabbe, "The Borough," written in 1810. There Grimes is unequivocally depicted as a villainous brute, "untouched by pity, unstung by remorse and uncorrected by shame," with "a mind so depraved and flinty."Britten and his librettist, Montagu Slater, softened the character considerably. Instead of mirroring the dark underside of his society, their Grimes became the victim of its oppression, a man who is "neither a hero nor a villain," according to Peter Pears, Britten's lifelong partner and the creator of the role. And so he remains in a cursory reading of the libretto, a rather ordinary figure whose "dreams and fiery visions," as far as we are told of them, amount to little more than a yearning for bourgeois respectability and social rehabilitation.This hardly made Grimes a tragic hero in the eyes of some music critics in 1945. "Is there not something shocking," Desmond Shawe-Taylor wrote in his review of the first performance, "in the attempt to win our sympathies for a character simply because he is an outlaw and an enemy of society — and no more questions asked?"As the opera became more familiar and more frequently performed, this nagging question pretty much evaporated, rendered more or less irrelevant by the sheer evocative power of Britten's music. It is fascinating to follow the opera's genesis, from the time Britten first encountered the Crabbe poem in 1941 (he and Pears  were living in Southern California at the time, seriously considering permanent immigration to the United States) through the three-year labor on the text and score before that triumphant first night on June 7, 1945. Although Mr. Slater was the nominal librettist and the words are mostly his, the shape of the drama, the characters' actions and language, were choices entirely made by Britten, a classic example of a strong-willed opera composer fully in charge of the creative process every step of the way.Clearly Britten meant Grimes to be an ambiguous character; whatever unrevealed facets there might be in his personality and motivations would be supplied by the music, and audiences could draw their own conclusions. There are dozens of examples of how the score tells us exactly what we need to know. One of the most overwhelming arrives when Grimes completely cracks in Act II after Ellen utters the despairing words "Peter! We've failed, we've failed!" He cries out as if in agony, strikes her and storms off singing, "So be it, and God have mercy upon me!"The words are spare on the page, but as a bone-chilling musical statement, a ferocious cadence descending from high B flat to the octave below, Grimes's outburst falls like a hammer blow, and the phrase haunts him for the rest of the opera. In one frightening musical stroke Peter seems to become the monster that the community always thought he was.In some circles it has become fashionable to identify Grimes with Britten himself, even to the point of interpreting the fisherman's hang-ups and his persecution by the community as an allegory of a closeted gay man living at a time when homosexual behavior was a criminal offense in England. Although he never spoke about it openly, Britten was undoubtedly aware that Grimes might be interpreted in that light, and he removed several phrases of the original text that might be considered homoerotic.As a gay young composer unsure of his place in society during those days, "muddled, fed-up and looking for work, longing to be used," as Britten said in Colorado upon receiving the first Aspen Award in 1964, he would be strongly drawn to a character wounded by alienation, social oppression and professional frustration. And his own experiences inevitably gave his treatment of the subject an added edge, tension and sense of pain. But it seems clear that Britten never intended to write a "gay" opera, even if that had been possible in the England of 1945. As the critic Andrew Porter once put it, "Peter Grimes" is "a presentation of a general human plight — that of the outsider at odds (for whatever reason) with those around him."From advance indications, the new Met production, by the British director John Doyle, does not aim to explore any controversial alternative interpretations of the piece, let alone take a deconstructionist tack. Instead it will allow the opera to speak for itself. Mr. Doyle has gained fame here for his boldly minimalist reimaginings of two classic Broadway musicals, "Sweeney Todd" and "Company."For "Peter Grimes" he plans to show "the Jekyll and Hyde in all of us when we're misunderstood and can't express ourselves," he said in an interview, by taking a straightforward narrative approach that will, he hopes, keep singing and acting in perfect balance. "It's an opera without an ounce of fat in it," he added, "and the characters walk a tightrope all evening."Anthony Dean Griffey will sing Grimes. His distinguished predecessors have all found different ways to play the role. Pears was an almost ethereal creature not quite of this world, a dreamer and inarticulate poet who stammered out phrases like "the truth, the pity, and the truth" but could not communicate their meaning. Jon Vickers saw far more rage, violence and conflict tearing inside Grimes in a performance that was positively terrifying in its sheer physical force: too much for Britten, who appeared to hate Vickers's Grimes. Mr. Griffey, who saw neither tenor in the role, said he feels free to go his own way.There may well have been a lot of Peter Grimes in Britten, but he seldom showed that side of himself to the world. The most striking parallel between the fictional character and the composer was that they both passed their lives in Aldeburgh, the small fishing community on the bleak but strangely beautiful Suffolk coast northeast of London. Crabbe also lived there, and that is the town he wrote so bitterly about in "The Borough." But it is the one spot in the world where Britten always felt he belonged, and once he returned home from America in 1942, he remained "firmly rooted in this glorious country," as he later wrote.I had an opportunity to see for myself how contentedly situated Britten was when, on a two-week assignment in 1967, I reported on Decca's recording sessions of his parable opera "The Burning Fiery Furnace"  for High Fidelity magazine.Seen in retrospect, that may have been one of the happiest periods in Britten's life. He still had his health and composed prolifically, honors rained down on him, he was enjoying a settled domestic life with Pears at the famous Red House just outside town, and he busily made music everywhere. The Aldeburgh Festival, which he and Pears founded in 1948, was flourishing and had just acquired a state-of-the-art concert hall: the Snape Maltings, a renovated brewery with magnificent acoustics. Recording sessions on the opera proceeded smoothly, a BBC crew had arrived to film a television documentary on Britten's life and work, and the queen was scheduled to open that year's festival and dedicate the new hall.Unlike Grimes, Britten seemed to fit easily into the community despite his natural reserve. The townspeople I met, many of whom could have stepped right out of "Peter Grimes," might have been slightly in awe of their famous neighbor, but everyone seemed proud he was among them, and they all looked forward to the free preopening concert Britten was giving just for them at the Maltings.Watching Britten at work recording his music was endlessly fascinating. As a conductor he could have coaxed music from a stone. The small children's chorus clearly adored him and rehearsed their part in the opera until they sang like angels. Pears was having trouble with one tricky ascent to a high C flat until Britten said, "A new edition, immediately," and penciled in a few changes to accommodate a voice he knew like no other. John Culshaw, the legendary producer of Decca's Wagner "Ring" cycle, was in charge of the sessions, and Britten worked closely with him to devise the elaborate stereophonic movement heard on the finished disc.No, Britten was hardly Peter Grimes, although he had full knowledge of the darker side of the society he lived in and the darker side of his own nature, and he wrote it all into his music. Leonard Bernstein once remarked that a piece by Britten may often seem decorative, positive and charming until you really hear it. Then "you become aware of something very dark," he added. "There are gears that are grinding and not quite meshing, and they make a great pain."No words better describe "Peter Grimes," which for Britten turned out to be more of a purge and a letting go than an autobiographical statement. After writing that masterpiece he was free to live with himself and his neighbors in a society where he knew he belonged, and to make his incomparable contribution to 20th-century music.It may seem paradoxical to describe the driving hard-rock sound of Grace Potter and the Nocturnals as comfort music. But a sense of familiarity, of a time-honored ritual expertly and reverently re-enacted, is one of the attractions of this Vermont  quartet, which played a 100-minute set at the Allen Room on Thursday evening as part of Lincoln Center's American Songbook series.The Nocturnals' lead guitarist, Scott Tournet, has said that the group wanted its newest CD, "This Is Somewhere" (Ragged Company/Hollywood), from which it performed many songs, to sound like an album made in 1973. And it does. In rock history that is the High Renaissance.Ms. Potter, the band's 24-year-old lead singer and songwriter, played a Hammond B-3 organ (one of three keyboards on the stage) as well as guitar. The organ is the most the distinctive element in an instrumental sound that suggests a composite of Creedence Clearwater Revival, Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, the Band, Crazy Horse and almost any other meat-and-potatoes rock outfit from the early and mid-1970s. The music defines what is meant by the term classic rock. The other two players are Matt Burr, a drummer with a fondness for "Be My Baby" kick-start intros, and the bass guitarist Bryan Dondero.Vocally Ms. Potter has a high, fervent folk-rock delivery that suggests a grittier Patty Griffin. A theme that runs through her tuneful songwriting is passionate, often painful sexual combat and the continuing clash between her insistence on independence and the inconvenient emotions that turn relationships into power struggles.Religion also enters the picture. Ms. Potter has a nagging conscience, knowledge of the devil and an apparent belief in heaven and hell. Her faith (or at least her search for it) was most powerfully manifested on Thursday in rock spirituals like "Big White Gate" and "Nothing but the Water," which pray for redemption and purification without quite preaching.Like many classic rockers before her, Ms. Potter addresses politics metaphorically. The band's minor hit "Ah Mary" mounts a furious accusation at a woman (a surrogate for a high-ranking politician?) who has "dirty money," who "puts herself a notch above humankind," and who will "bake you cookies, then she'll burn your town."As Ms. Potter sang the words "She's the beat of my heart, she's the shot of a gun/She'll be the end of me and nearly everyone," she implicated herself in the imminent disaster, suggesting that there is a vengeful part of "Mary" in everyone.The Russian National Orchestra, with its young and energetic players, seemed like an upstart band when Mikhail Pletnev founded it in 1990, but he quickly established it as an important ensemble in the post-Soviet music world. The orchestra has also had a fruitful relationship with Vladimir Jurowski, the 35-year-old Russian firebrand who became its principal guest conductor in 2005.Mr. Jurowski is juggling other prestigious posts  — the directorships  of the Glyndebourne Opera Festival and the London Philharmonic Orchestra  —  as well as a busy conducting schedule. But from a New Yorker's perspective, his relationship with this Russian orchestra seems particularly strong: he conducted it  on its visits here in 2006 and 2007, and when it returned to Avery Fisher Hall on Saturday night  and Sunday afternoon he was at its podium again.Mr. Jurowski opened the Saturday program with the Schubert Eighth Symphony, the "Unfinished," in a completion by Anton Safronov. Listeners faced with a finished "Unfinished" inevitably ask two questions. Is a completion necessary? And given that for most people the answer is no  —  this work, beloved in its two-movement form, has a secure berth in the repertory  —  is the solution worthy of the challenge?That answer, alas, was a thumbs down as well. For the third movement Mr. Safronov had Schubert's piano sketch as a guide, but his big, boomy orchestration, with a gentle pastoral trio at its core, sounded jarring after the first two movements.The finale was more freewheeling, drawing on other Schubert scores (an unfinished piano sonata and the "Marche Héroïque"  for piano four hands). Its nicer touches included woodwind lines that vaguely mirrored those of the opening movement, although its dominant effects were speed and fury.The movement gave Mr. Jurowski a wonderful way to show off the orchestra's precision and heft, but it put this completion on a different planet from  the two graceful movements Schubert wrote before setting the score aside.Each concert included one of the Brahms Piano Concertos. On Saturday Stephen Hough was the soloist in the D minor Concerto (Op. 15), and true to form, he played with an impetuous, forceful touch that gave his reading  —  or at least the outer movements  —  an electrifying quality that Mr. Jurowski and his players matched. The Adagio, by contrast, was oddly passionless at first, but once Mr. Hough warmed to it, he gave it an appealingly supple account.In the B flat major Concerto (Op. 83) on Sunday, Garrick Ohlsson took a patrician view of the rich piano writing, creating breadth while avoiding bluster. His performance was a study in unleashing a powerful sound with no wasted movement: he made it seem as if he were moving through the thick-textured scoring without breaking a sweat. The orchestra, except for momentarily sour opening horn passages, produced a brilliant, assertive sound, suffused with a particularly Russian sense of drama.Mr. Jurowski closed the Sunday concert with a hot-blooded, palpably emotional performance of the Tchaikovsky "Pathétique" Symphony (Op. 74), full of unusual and welcome touches. In the opening movement, instead of striving for coherence, Mr. Jurowski stressed the episodic quality of the writing, offering the music as a stream of fevered reminiscences painted on a vast canvas. He drew extraordinary effects from the orchestra, including swirling string and woodwind figures in the Allegro molto vivace, along with superbly balanced brass playing and full-throttle percussion.His tempos  were unusually fluid throughout, at no cost in ensemble tightness. And he gave the dark finale such a plangent reading that it seemed, at times, as if this symphony might have been Mahler's principal sourcebook.JANET JACKSON"Discipline" (Island Def Jam)Some pop stars sing about sex because it sells. Not Janet Jackson, 41, who has been ridiculed — tirelessly, mean-spiritedly, wrongheadedly and bafflingly — as an aging sex kitten for the last four years, ever since the 2004  Super Bowl, when her nipple-exposing performance with Justin Timberlake sent her career on a downward slide. (His, too, presumably. Whatever happened to that fellow?) Her sensual, squiggly and quite lovely 2004 album, "Damita Jo," was a flop. So was the flirty — and quite unlovely — 2006 follow-up, "20 Y.O."Now comes "Discipline," her third attempt at the redemption she really shouldn't have to seek. It's a return to the electro-pop experimentation of "Damita Jo," led by a blippy and propulsive single called "Feedback." The lyrics are one long come-on, built around the three least sexy words in the English language: "sexy, sexy, sexy." The single hasn't made much of an impact on radio, offering more proof that for Ms. Jackson, sex really doesn't sell. But she keeps singing about it anyway. With every passing year this choice seems braver and more defiant. More mysterious too.Ms. Jackson has long gravitated toward adventurous tracks that complement the exotic timbre of her small, breathy voice. And "Discipline" is a headphone album, full of Ping-Ponging sound effects and whispered ad-libs. From "Rollercoaster" (in which a riotous beat upstages the goofy lyrics) to "So Much Betta" (a mutant house-music confection), this album should remind listeners that Ms. Jackson helped invent the hybrid electronic R&B sound that currently rules the pop charts. And "Greatest X," a collaboration with The-Dream, has something that's sometimes lacking elsewhere: a huge, hummable chorus.If anything, "Discipline" may be too subtle: a pretty, smartly produced collection that sometimes sounds like background music. And the spoken interludes (nine of them!) aren't welcome distractions. Keep listening, though, and you'll eventually get to the title track, a masochistic fantasia in which she begs, "Take out your frustrations on me." It's a vivid and discomfiting song that can he heard as comedy or tragedy, depending on whether you picture the "daddy" in the lyrics as Jermaine Dupri, her diminutive boyfriend (who helped produce the album), or as Joe Jackson, the tough paterfamilias of the Jackson family. Everyone's talking about a comeback, but it sounds as if Ms. Jackson would rather keep going, burrowing deeper into the weird world she has created. KELEFA SANNEHLIZZ WRIGHT"The Orchard"(Verve Forecast)More longing, more melancholy and more songs of her own make "The Orchard" Lizz Wright's best album. There was never any doubt about her lustrous voice, with its gospel and blues roots, its jazzy suppleness, its languid timing and its rich empathy. But it has taken time for her to find the right songs and settings.Ms. Wright was pulled between pop and jazz on her overly slick 2003 debut album, "Salt." For her 2005 album, "Dreaming Wide Awake," she drew on the New York City scene that mingles songwriters and jazz musicians, working with the producer Craig Street (who has made albums with Cassandra Wilson, Meshell Ndegeocello and K. D. Lang) and the songwriter Toshi Reagon. She settled on a coffeehouse soul approach that favors acoustic instruments and a bluesy foundation — in the same territory as India.Arie, but far less smiley.Mr. Street and Ms. Reagon return on "The Orchard," and they understand and magnify Ms. Wright's own gifts. "The Orchard" is an album of songs in search of love, and few of them find anything that looks like happily ever after. Over a Latin rhythm that sounds like an obsessive pulse, "My Heart" offers "My heart, my mind, my soul" to someone who may not want them, while "Leave Me Standing Alone" tries desperately to let go: "I had to run away/I had to get free," she insists. The music is unhurried and the instrumentation discreet, making Ms. Wright's entreaties more intimate.Ms. Reagon and Ms. Wright wrote half of the album's songs together. Most of their collaborations hint at soul and the gospel behind it; "Coming Home" could be a spiritual. Ms. Wright is equally open and exposed in the folky fingerpicking of songs written with other guitarists: John Leventhal or Dave Tozer, who collaborated on "Speak Your Heart," in which she pleads, "Let me in or let me go."Her version of Led Zeppelin's "Thank You" moves from folky to churchy as it finally celebrates that happily-ever-after devotion. But after a pause, the album concludes with a Mel Tillis song, "Strange," that leaves the singer alone yet again, dreamy and desolate. JON PARELESDOLLY PARTON "Backwoods Barbie" (Dolly)Perhaps someone somewhere hasn't noticed yet that Dolly Parton is no dumb blonde. She wants to make that clear one more time in the title song of "Backwoods Barbie," insisting, "Don't be fooled by thinkin' that the goods are not all there." That's pretty obvious, since Ms. Parton wrote most of the songs, produced them with her guitarist and arranger, Kent Wells, and has released the album on her own label.She's still ambitious. After a string of bluegrass-rooted albums and concept albums ("For God and Country" and remakes of other people's hits on "Those Were the Days"), "Backwoods Barbie" aims to return Ms. Parton to mainstream country radio. It has a modern Nashville production full of glossy guitars and full-scale buildups, with a couple of pop remakes (Smokey Robinson's "Tracks of My Tears" and Fine Young Cannibals' "She Drives Me Crazy" with a pronoun change) as insurance.Ms. Parton devotes a few other songs on "Backwoods Barbie" to her own success and celebrity: the determinedly inspirational "Jesus & Gravity" and the bouncy, oddly callous "Better Get to Livin'," in which she answers a friend's hard-luck story with "You better stop whinin'."But she's far more appealing when she sings about country's classic subject, infidelity. The fragile flutter in her voice and the reedy strength behind it make her as convincing as ever in the power-country ballads "Made of Stone," in which she's the betrayed wife, and "Cologne," where she's the other woman. She reaches back to honky-tonk in the easy-swinging "Lonesomes" and in "I Will Forever Hate Roses," an old-fashioned country waltz about a goodbye bouquet. And she finds the loneliness in the Celtic-rooted "Only Dreamin' " amid pennywhistles, strings and a backup chorale. Once again she's the voice of rural innocence all dressed up in big-city trappings, and still coming through as herself. JON PARELESERYKAH BADU "New Amerykah: Part One (4th World War)"(Universal/Motown)In 1997 Erykah Badu introduced herself with a sweet and to-the-point R&B record ("Baduizm"), transmitting all the basics about her light and efficacious coo, her liquescent phrasing, her mixture of Nation of Islam philosophy and home truths. Then she started getting expansive and interior. Her next hit, "Tyrone," was a routine over a vamp she had worked out onstage. Those long vamps became her direction, at the expense of songwriting and concision. The last time we saw an Erykah Badu album, four-and-some years ago, it was called "Worldwide Underground," the perfect two-word telegram for expansive and interior; it was marketed as an EP, and it was 50 minutes long, full of extended studio jams."New Amerykah: Part One (4th World War)" is the first installment of a projected pair, and it's a deep, murky swim in her brain. Whether you like it depends in great part on how much you liked her before — the persona as well as the music. She's still interested in long songs with little development, but she has turned away from live-band studio jams; most of these tracks were made on a hard drive, hip-hop-style, by producers including Madlib, Shafiq Husayn and Taz Arnold, and 9th Wonder, with a few live instruments added. Sometimes the tracks bear echoes of the old neo-soul style she helped shape in the late '90s, like Roy Hargrove's soft, multitracked trumpets in "Me."A lot happens in these songs — sound effects, eccentric interludes, dramatically different kinds of singing, from polished wailing to sleepy, floppy throwaway vocals. It stands to reason that there should be another album's worth of this material, which flickers back and forth between different kinds of sessions and ideas, some quite elegant, some deeply boring, none of it very well edited.The album's single, "Honey," a lighthearted love song, appended as a secret track, works like a decoy. What you're really in for is a claustrophobic and sad and sometimes grandiose record, full of woozy tones — including Ms. Badu's own vibrato — and boiling ideas about institutional racism, the abuse of power, addiction and poverty. ("The Cell," which combines images of DNA and prisons, has all of the above.) But those ideas can be half-expressed or too well worn. Inasmuch as it's a political record, much of the social agenda here has been suggested by Curtis Mayfield, Marvin Gaye and Funkadelic. The album suggests that little has changed in nearly 40 years, and perhaps — since she's interested in ancient history — that's her point. BEN RATLIFFUNIONDALE, N.Y. — "T-Pain! Seventeen million ring tones later!"The boast came from the stage, from T-Pain himself or maybe from one of his protégés. And it summed up a hit-and-miss night that celebrated hip-hop in an age of small stars and big songs. In an era of downloads and diminished expectations, success is measured in increments of $2.49.This was Winter Fest 2008, a grab-bag concert promoted by the New York hip-hop radio station Hot 97, WQHT-FM. It happened on Friday night here at the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum, though the arena wasn't much more than half full. And the biggest name on the bill was Snoop Dogg, the gangsta-rap pioneer who is now the star of "Snoop Dogg's Father Hood," a cheerful E! reality show.Snoop Dogg is an indelible star and an outsized character (and, as he demonstrated during his half-hour set, a hip-hop virtuoso). But it's telling that the headlining slot went to two smaller figures: T-Pain, a low-key figure despite his ubiquitous computer-enhanced refrains, and DJ Khaled, the Palestinian-American D.J. who has evolved into a scrappy hip-hop mogul.Together these two put on a show that seemed miscellaneous by design. Both are hip-hop hitmakers, though they generally outsource part of the manufacturing process — verse delivery, let's call it — to that important but beleaguered class of skilled workers known as rappers. (Is there no presidential candidate with a plan to save America's rhyme industry?) And so a procession of rapping guests arrived onstage: Fabolous, Rick Ross, Fat Joe, Busta Rhymes, Flo Rida. No doubt every one of them envied T-Pain's ring-tone sales figures.On two albums and many more singles T-Pain has proved himself a studio superhero: the guy behind those robotic refrains is also a canny songwriter and an inventive producer, well aware that absurd lyrics sound even absurder when you croon them. (Exhibit A, from "Bartender": "She made us drinks to drink/We drunk 'em, got drunk.") Onstage, though, T-Pain seems downright Clark Kentish. Mild-mannered to a fault, he made small talk ("My ghetto passport is updated weekly," he explained), conferred with protégés and took a break before  nearly every song or snippet. More than once a shocking sound filled the arena: awkward silence.Still, listeners wanting proof of T-Pain's influence needed to look no further than the rappers onstage. Flo Rida has yet to release a major-label album, but he already has a smash hit with "Low," a T-Pain collaboration that has been the No. 1 song in America for nine weeks running. (That's the longest streak since Beyoncé's "Irreplaceable.") And Snoop Dogg's current hit is "Sensual Seduction," which finds him using a familiar-sounding vocal effect. Perhaps T-Pain had Snoop Dogg in mind when he said, "I know y'all hear a lot of people out here doing the T-Pain thing." For good measure he delivered a rap with a simple theme: "Stop stealing."Earlier the brash rapper Juelz Santana and the elegant R&B singer Trey Songz had each delivered a strong, short solo set. But by the time DJ Khaled bounded onstage, around 10 p.m., cheerful chaos reigned. He led the guest rappers through shout-along versions of "We Takin' Over" and "I'm So Hood," from his 2007 indie-label mixtape, "We the Best" (Koch). He recently announced that he is starting a label in partnership with Def Jam Recordings, and he clearly enjoys the role of loud-mouthed big shot.By the night's end all of the advertised rappers had appeared except one: Birdman. (No explanation was given.) In exchange listeners got a surprise appearance from Jim Jones, who materialized as the stage was filling up and the sound was cutting off. "I don't want to be the bad guy," he said, halfway ominously, before he sulked off.DJ Khaled wasn't happy. "We can't leave it like that," he said. But by then the music had been cut, semisatisfied customers were wandering out, and it fell to T-Pain to state the obvious. "Well, damn," he said. "I guess we got to leave it like that."FILMEAST HAMPTON Guild Hall "Water," directed by Deepa Mehta. March 2 at 7 p.m. Free. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050; www.guildhall.org.HUNTINGTON Cinema Arts Center "U-Carmen," a modern adaptation of the opera "Carmen." Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. $5.50 to $9. "Honeydripper,"  drama by John Sayles, starring Danny Glover. Friday. $5.50 to $9. Cinema Arts Center, 423 Park Avenue. (631) 423-7611; www.cinemaartscentre.org.STONY BROOK Charles B. Wang Center "Behind Forgotten Eyes," a documentary by Anthony Gilmore. Monday at 7 p.m. Free. Screening and discussion of "Three Seasons," directed  by Tony Bui. Thursday at 1 p.m. Free. Charles B. Wang Center, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-4400; www.sunysb.edu/sb/wang.WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly,"  directed by Julian Schnabel. Through Feb. 24. $3 to $10. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; www.whbpac.org.THEATERDIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts "Hamlet," directed by Kathy Curtiss. Friday through March 9. $10 and $15. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org.EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Main Stage Theater "Angel Feathers," a dark comedy by Greg Suddeth. Through March 16. $18 and $22. Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org.LINDENHURST BroadHollow Theater "Regrets Only," a dramatic comedy by Paul Rudnick. Through Feb. 24. $14 to $22. BroadHollow Studio Theater, 141 South Wellwood Avenue. (631) 581-7000; www.broadhollow.org.NORTH MERRICK Lantern Theater of North Merrick  "The Foreigner," comedy by Larry Shue. March 1 through 16. $13 and $15. Lantern Theater of North Merrick, 1260 Meadowbrook Road. (516) 221-4485.OAKDALE CM Performing Arts Center Rodgers and Hammerstein's "Oklahoma!" Through March 9. $16 and $22. CM Performing Arts Center, 931 Montauk Highway. (631) 218-2810; www.cmpac.com. PATCHOGUE  Clare Rose Playhouse "Violet," a musical about a young woman's pilgrimage across America. Through March 9. $12 to $44 (some options include dinner). Clare Rose Playhouse, 155 West Roe Boulevard. (631) 654-0199; www.sjcny.edu.STONY BROOK Staller Center for the Arts "4ish," stunt performances by hip-hop dancers, extreme-sports champions and performers from Amsterdam. Feb. 24 at 7 p.m. $18.50 to $37. Staller Center for the Arts, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-2787; www.staller.sunysb.edu.FOR CHILDRENBAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts "Madeline and the Bad Hat," a musical based on the book. March 8 at 7 p.m. $15. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.com.CENTERPORT Vanderbilt Museum "Larry Cat in Space," a planetarium cartoon about a cat who takes a trip to the moon. Through Feb. 24 at 2 p.m. $3 to $7. Vanderbilt Museum, 180 Little Neck Road. (631) 854-5555; www.vanderbiltmuseum.org.EAST ISLIP BayWay Arts Center "Cinderella," presented by the children's theater. Feb. 23 and March 1 at 2 p.m. $8. BayWay Arts Center, 265 East Main Street. (631) 581-2700; www.broadhollow.org.GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum "Blue Man Group: Making Waves," an exhibition of sound and light. Through May 4. $8 and $9. Kids First! Family Film Club screening of "Eloise in Springtime."  Ages 5 and up. Friday at 4:30 p.m. $3 to $6. Mini-Ring Circus, with balancing, juggling and plate-spinning. Ages 3 and up. March 1 and 2. $2 to $6. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. (516) 224-5800; www.licm.org.OAKDALE CM Performing Arts Center "The Tale of Peter Rabbit." Through March 15. $9. CM Performing Arts Center, 931 Montauk Highway. (631) 218-2810; www.cmpac.com.OAKDALE Connetquot River State Park "Great Grandma's Kitchen" explores what it was like to work in a kitchen in the 1800s, with gadgets from back then. March 8, 9:30 a.m. $2 and $3. Connetquot River State Park, Sunrise Highway. (631) 581-1072.OYSTER BAY Theodore Roosevelt Sanctuary and Audubon Center  Project Feeder Watch workshop on winter birds. Through Feb. 24. Free. "World of Reptiles!" examines a variety of reptiles and the adaptations that help them survive. March 1, 1 p.m. $3. Theodore Roosevelt Sanctuary and Audubon Center, 134 Cove Road. (516) 922-3200.PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts "Peter and the Wolf," an adaptation of the traditional Russian folk tale set to music by Sergei Prokofiev, presented by the Pushcart Players. Wednesday at 3 p.m. $8. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; www.patchoguetheatre.com.PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three "Rumpelstiltskin," presented by the children's theater. March 1 through 15. $8. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; www.theaterthree.com.RIVERHEAD Long Island Science Center "Chocolate Frenzy." Learn how chocolate is made, sample hot chocolate and make chocolate clay. Through Feb. 24. $2 and $5. Long Island Science Center, 11 West Main Street. (631) 208-8000; www.lisciencecenter.org.STONY BROOK Staller Center for the Arts "The Frog Bride," a retelling of a Russian fairy tale with David Gonzalez. March 2 at 3 p.m. $10. Staller Center for the Arts, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-2787; www.staller.sunysb.edu.MUSIC AND DANCEBAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts  Kerry Kearney Band, Delta style music. March 1 at 8 p.m. $20. Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul, Celtic and world music. March 7 at 8 p.m. $40. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.com.BAY SHORE St. Peters Episcopal Church "Masters of Improvisation," featuring Peter Planyavsky, organist. Feb. 24 at 6 p.m. $8 and $10. St. Peter's By-the-Sea Episcopal Church, 500 South Country Road. (631) 665-0051; www.stpetersbayshore.org.CENTERPORT Congregational Church of Huntington Phil Ochs Song Night, a tribute to the singer and songwriter. March 1 at 8:30 p.m. $15 and $20. Congregational Church of Huntington, 30 Washington Drive. (631) 425-2925.COLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum Sea chanteys and folk songs by Sampawam's Creek. March 9 at 2:30 p.m. Free with museum admission. Cold Spring Harbor Whaling Museum, Route 25A. (631) 367-3418; www.cshwhalingmuseum.org.DIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts "A Most Enjoyable Afternoon of Music," with the pianist Richard Vallis and friends, presented by the Chamber Music Society. Feb. 24 at 2 p.m. $10. "Fifty Years of Bossa Nova," featuring Maucha Adnet, vocalist,  and the Felipe Salles Quartet.  Friday at 7:30 p.m. $20. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org.FARMINGDALE Crazy Donkey  "Drum Fight 5,"  a competition featuring 48 drummers. Feb. 24 at 4 p.m. $10 and $13. Crazy Donkey, 1058 Route 110. (631) 753-1975; www.thecrazydonkey.com.HUNTINGTON Inter-Media Art Center Diane Schuur, jazz vocalist. March 1 at 8 p.m. $30 and $40. The Radiators, New Orleans swamp rock and rhythm and blues. March 8 at 8 p.m. $30 and $40. Inter-Media Art Center, 370 New York Avenue. (631) 549-2787; www.imactheater.org.LONG BEACH Long Beach Public Library Egyptian belly-dancing, featuring Layla Taj. March 2 at 2 p.m. Free. Long Beach Public Library, 111 West Park Avenue. (516) 432-7201.MANHASSET Unitarian Universalist Congregation at Shelter Rock David Ostwald's Gully Low Jazz Band. Feb. 24 at 1 p.m. $10. Unitarian Universalist Congregation at Shelter Rock, 48 Shelter Rock Road. (516) 627-6560.OLD WESTBURY Salten Hall  "Great Sounds of Jazz,"  performance by Giovanni Von Essen. Feb. 24, 3 p.m. Free. Salten Hall, New York Institute of Technology, Old Westbury Campus, Northern Boulevard. (516) 686-7640.PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts The Atlantic Wind Symphony's "English Treats"  will include "Jupiter" by Gustav Holst, "Courtly Dances" by  Benjamin Britten and "The Phantom of the Opera" by Andrew Lloyd Webber. March 2 at 3 p.m. $12 and $15.  "Live in the Lobby"  features Smile Pretty Misery and Mike Jason. March 6 at 7 p.m. $5. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; www.patchoguetheatre.com.STONY BROOK Staller Center for the Arts The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center tour, featuring Wu Han, piano, Ani Kavafian and Arnaud Sussman, violin, Paul Neubauer, viola and Fred Sherry, cello. March 1 at 8 p.m. $42. Staller Center for the Arts, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-2787; www.staller.sunysb.edu.WESTBURY North Fork Theater  "Dick Fox's Spring Doo Wop Extravaganza"  with a lineup of doo wop acts. March 1 at 8 p.m. $41.50 and $51.50.  "The Pink Floyd Experience" (tribute).  March 5 at 8 p.m. $40 and $50. North Fork Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800; www.livenation.com.OUTDOORSHUNTINGTON Caumsett State Historic Park  "Bird Basics for Beginners," a program about bird songs and adaptation that  includes a one-mile walk. March 2, 2:15 p.m. $3.  "Introduction to Wilderness Survival."  Learn how to find food, start a fire and build a shelter. March 9, 11 a.m. $3. Caumsett State Historic Park, 25 Lloyd Harbor Road. (631) 423-1770.LONG BEACH Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center "Poetry and Seal Walk." Observe seals and listen to the poetry of Maxwell Corydon Wheat Jr. March 1, 1:30 p.m. $3. Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center, Ocean Parkway. (516) 679-7254.MUTTONTOWN Hoffman Center  "Woodcock Walk," a search for the woodcock in hopes of seeing its courtship ritual. March 1, 5 p.m. $3 and $5. Hoffman Center, 6000 Route 25A. (516) 922-3290.WESTHAMPTON BEACH Cupsogue Beach County Park Seal walks with the Coastal Research and Education Society of Long Island. Through May 4. $5 suggested donation. Cupsogue Beach County Park, Dune Road. (631) 244-3352; www.cresli.org.SPOKEN WORDEAST HAMPTON Guild Hall The Naked Stage  in a staged reading of "The Odyssey," adapted by Mary Zimmerman. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050; www.guildhall.org.HOLBROOK Sachem Public Library A discussion of "A Thousand Splendid Suns,"  the novel by Khaled Hosseini. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Free. Sachem Public Library, 150 Holbrook Road. (631) 588-5024.LONG BEACH Long Beach Public Library Discussion of the novel "The Emperor of Ocean Park," by Stephen L. Carter. Wednesday at 2 p.m. Susan Bleck discusses her book "Confessions of a Carb Queen." March 4 at 7:30 p.m. Long Beach Public Library, 111 West Park Avenue. (516) 432-7201.STONY BROOK Charles B. Wang Center "Planet India: The Turbulent Rise of the Largest Democracy and the Future of Our World," discussion and book signing by Mira Kamdar. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Free. Charles B. Wang Center, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-4400; www.sunysb.edu/sb/wang/.MUSEUMS AND GALLERIESCOLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum "Pirates!" explores the mystery and folklore of pirates. Through August. $4 and $5; children under 5, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Whaling Museum, Route 25A. (631) 367-3418; www.cshwhalingmuseum.org.DIX HILLS Jeanie Tengelsen Gallery "A Sense of Place," group show. Through March 30. Jeanie Tengelsen Gallery, 107 East Deer Park Road. (631) 462-5400.HEMPSTEAD Hofstra Museum African-American highlights from the Reader's Digest Association art collection, featuring 36 works. Through March 20. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Hofstra Museum, 112 Hofstra University. (516) 463-5672; www.hofstra.edu/museum.JERICHO Jericho Public Library "A Bright Spot in Winter," works by members of the Manhasset Art Association. Through Thursday. Jericho Public Library, 1 Merry Lane. (516) 935-6790; www.jericholibrary.org.NORTHPORT Northport Historical Society Museum "Burying Grounds: Art, History and Genealogy." Through March 1. $3. Tuesdays through Sundays, 1 to 4:30 p.m. Northport Historical Society Museum, 215 Main Street. (631) 757-9859; www.northporthistorical.org.ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art "Games, Gizmos and Toys in the Attic," a three-dimensional installation by Walter Wick. Through April 27. "Pop and Op," mixed-media exhibition. Through May 4. $4 to $10; children under 5 and members, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9338; www.nassaumuseum.com.SOUTHAMPTON Southampton Historical Museum "The Joys of Toys," folk art. Through March 29. $4. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Southampton Historical Museum, 17 Meeting House Lane. (631) 283-2494; www.southamptonhistoricalmuseum.org.Back in the 1960s some of the most promising British musicians aspired only to sound as good as their collections of American blues and R & B records, or perhaps some Saturday-night gig along the old  chitlin' circuit.The careers of Eric Clapton and Steve Winwood would go on to full-tilt jamming, psychedelic fusions, pop hits, rootsy rock and middle-aged soft-rock. But when they got together at Madison Square Garden on Monday night — for the first of three shows there that, Mr. Clapton hinted, may lead them to "do a bit more" — they still paid homage to their cherished old Americana. Half the set was American songs, from old blues to J. J. Cale's "After Midnight" and an extended version of Jimi Hendrix's "Voodoo Chile."Mr. Clapton and Mr. Winwood did play four of the six songs from the studio album that came out of their last collaboration: Blind Faith, the supergroup (with Cream's drummer, Ginger Baker, and the bassist Rick Grech) that existed for only part of 1969, including a chaotic show at Madison Square Garden.Monday's set started with "Had to Cry Today," which declares in its first words, "It's already written that today will be one to remember." Yet Mr. Clapton and Mr. Winwood carried themselves modestly, without bravado: just a couple of musicians doing their job.They were looking for the mysterious spark that transforms capable, proficient blues or rock into something startling and exalted. It wasn't always there. Old blues songs still came across as the work of skilled, dutiful students, chugging steadily through "Crossroads" or easing back for Mr. Clapton's near-homages to B. B. King, Albert King and Buddy Guy in "Double Trouble."Mr. Clapton and Mr. Winwood were serious about songs like "Sleeping in the Ground," which Blind Faith performed in 1969, with raspy vocals, splashy barrelhouse piano from Mr. Winwood and a stinging, Chicago-style lead from Mr. Clapton. But it was musicianship, not alchemy.Fitfully, they found it: in a slow, aching version of "Georgia on My Mind" by Mr. Winwood alone at a Hammond organ; in Mr. Clapton's Blind Faith song, "Presence of the Lord," with two very different vocal approaches from Mr. Clapton and Mr Winwood; in the Traffic instrumental "Glad" topped by a frenetic raga-tinged solo from Mr. Clapton; and in Traffic's "Dear Mr. Fantasy," which built to a searing guitar solo by Mr. Winwood. If anything, it was Mr. Winwood's night; his Blind Faith song "Can't Find My Way Home" held both anguish and camaraderie as he and Mr. Clapton let their guitar picking entwine.Whatever broke up Blind Faith 39 years ago seemed well behind them; Mr. Clapton also sits in on Mr. Winwood's forthcoming album, "Nine Lives." They shared many songs, trading off vocals on verses and sometimes playing simultaneous, overlapping lead guitars. The band was Mr. Clapton's, with Willie Weeks on bass, Ian Thomas on drums and Chris Stainton on keyboards. It kept the songs earthy, helping Mr. Clapton put a bluesy bite into Mr. Winwood's old Traffic song "Pearly Queen" and making Hendrix's "Little Wing" sound as if  it could have been a song by the Band — until Mr. Clapton's guitar solo, spiraling skyward with wailing melodic lines and bursts of speedy filigree.It was, despite all the musicians' experience, the first full-length set together in decades for Mr. Clapton and Mr. Winwood. Understandably, they sometimes fell back on reflexes. The chitlin' circuit toned up bands through steady work, something the Clapton-Winwood band could try for itself.COMEDYENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center Ron White, stand-up comedian from the Blue Collar Comedy Tour. March 6 at 8 p.m. $39 to $99. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org.HASBROUCK HEIGHTS Bananas Comedy Club Robert Kelly, stand-up. Friday and March 1. $20. Bananas Comedy Club, 283 Route 17 South. (201) 727-1090; www.bananascomedyclub.com.NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater Bill Cosby, stand-up. Feb. 24 at 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. $25 to $60. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; www.statetheatrenj.org.FILMRED BANK Count Basie Theater "Take Nine at the Basie: Nine Decades of Film Classics," free screenings: "Casablanca," directed by Michael Curtiz. Tuesday at 5 p.m. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org.FOR CHILDRENATLANTIC HIGHLANDS First Avenue Playhouse "Beauty and the Beast," presented by the Paper Moon Puppet Theater. Through March 22. $9. First Avenue Playhouse, 123 First Avenue. (732) 291-7552; www.firstavenueplayhouse.com.BRANCHBURG The Theatre, Raritan Valley Community College The Theatre's Sampler Series:  "Peter and the Wolf/Beauty and the Beast," a performance by the New Jersey Ballet Company. Ages 4 and up. March 2 at 1 and 3:30 p.m. $10. Theater at Raritan Valley Community College, Route 28 and Lamington Road in North Branch. (908) 725-3420; www.rvccarts.org.CAPE MAY Emlen Physick Estate "Cape May Family Treasure Hunt," self-guided family tours; continuing. $5. Emlen Physick Estate, 1048 Washington Street. (800) 275-4278; www.capemaymac.org.HACKENSACK Edward Williams Building Auditorium, Fairleigh Dickinson University "Schumann's World," a concert featuring four selections from the works of Bach, Brahms and Schumann. March 9 at 3 p.m. Free. Edward Williams Building Auditorium, Fairleigh Dickinson University, 150 Kotte Place. (201) 692-7028.MADISON Museum of Early Trades and Crafts "Happy Birthday Widget," a birthday party to honor the mascot Widget the Beaver. Ages 2 to 6. Thursday, 4 to 6 p.m. $3. Museum of Early Trades and Crafts, 9 Main Street. (973) 377-2982; www.rosenet.org/metc.MARLTON Borders "Fancy Nancy: Bonjour Butterfly," stories and activities. Monday at 10 a.m. Free. Borders, 515 Route 73 South. (856) 985-5080.MONTCLAIR Luna Stage "Rapunzel," musical comedy presented by Running Rabbit Family Theater. Through March 9. $14. Luna Stage, 695 Bloomfield Avenue. (973) 744-3309.NEW PROVIDENCE  Suburban Community Music Center "Meet the Brass." Children will be introduced to a wide variety of brass instruments; interactive performances by members of the New Jersey Youth Symphony will follow. Ages 3 to 8. Feb. 24 at 2 p.m. $5. Suburban Community Music Center, 570 Central Avenue. (908) 790-0700; www.scmcmusic.org.TOMS RIVER Ocean County Library "Mother Goose on the Loose." Rhymes and songs for babies up to 23 months.   Through Thursday. Free; registration required. Ocean County Library, 101 Washington Street. (732) 349-6200; www.oceancounty.lib.nj.us.WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College "Stone Soup," a musical based on a classic fairy tale, presented by the Children's Theater. March 8 at 2 and 4 p.m. $10 to $16. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org.MUSIC AND DANCEENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center Dionne Warwick, pop. March 1 at 8 p.m. $27 to $97. The Beach Boys, pop. March 2 at 7 p.m. $37 to $110. "Too Hip for the Room Cabaret Series," with performance by singer-songwriter Kate Taylor. March 6 at 7 and 9:30 p.m. $50. The Chieftains, traditional Irish music. March 8 at 8 p.m. $35 to $97. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org.FAIR LAWN Fair Lawn Community Center Modern Man and guest Abbie Gardner, folk. March 1 at 8 p.m. $17 and $20. Fair Lawn Community Center, 10-10 20th Street. (201) 384-1325.LAWRENCEVILLE Jacobs Music Recital Hall Joanna Chao, pianist, will perform works by Beethoven, Brahms, Pesson and Smetana. Feb. 24 at 3 p.m. $15. Alex Ruvinstein, pianist, will perform works by Bach, Chopin and Ravel. March 9 at 3 p.m. $8 and $15. Jacobs Music Recital Hall, 2540 Brunswick Pike. (609) 434-0222; www.jacobsmusic.com.MILLBURN St. Stephen's Church John Charles Schucker, organist, performing selections from German and French organ works. Feb. 24 at 4 p.m. $10. St. Stephen's Church, 119 Main Street. (973) 376-0688.MORRISTOWN Morristown United Methodist Church "Abendmusik," performance by the Albers Trio. March 8 at 7:30 p.m. $12 and $15. Morristown United Methodist Church, 50 Park Place. (973) 538-2132.NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center New Jersey Symphony Orchestra. Through Feb. 24. $20 to $78. New Jersey Symphony Orchestra. March 1 at 8 p.m. $20 to $78. Prokofiev's "Romeo and Juliet," by the Tchaikovsky Ballet and Orchestra. March 2 at 4 p.m. $21 to $79. Jill Scott, soul/R&B. March 5 and 6. $45 to $85. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org.RED BANK Count Basie Theater "Love, Janis," a musical portraying the life of Janis Joplin. March 6 at 8 p.m. $20 to $49.50. The Irish Rovers, Celtic. March 8 at 8 p.m. $19.50 to $40. B.B. King, blues. March 9 at 7 p.m. $38 to $175. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org.SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center "Discover 'The Four Seasons,' " a demonstration of the score and a performance of the concertos. Feb. 24 at 3 p.m. $32 and $40. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; www.sopacnow.org.SUMMIT Summit High School The Summit Symphony Orchestra,  works by von Weber, Bruch and Mendelssohn. March 9 at 3 p.m. Free. Summit High School, 125 Kent Place Boulevard. (908) 273-1494.TOMS RIVER Ocean County Library "Garden State Philharmonic: Exploring American Genius," a celebration of African-American composers and musicians and their influence on American music today. Feb. 24 at 2 p.m. Free. Ocean County Library, 101 Washington Street. (732) 349-6200; www.oceancounty.lib.nj.us.WAYNE Shea Center for Performing Arts, William Paterson University Jazz Room Concert Series: Vincent Herring and his quintet, swing. Feb. 24 at 4 p.m. $8 to $15. Shea Center for the Performing Arts, William Paterson University, 300 Pompton Road. (973) 720-2371; www.wpunj.edu.OUTDOORSCAPE MAY Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts "Ghosts of Cape May Trolley Tour," a guided tour of Cape May. Through March 22. $5 and $10. Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts, 1048 Washington Street. (609) 884-5404; www.capemaymac.org.SPOKEN WORDLAKEWOOD Lakewood Municipal Building "A Walk Down Memory Lane," an oral history told by a panel of guests from the African-American community. Feb. 24 at 2 p.m. Free. Lakewood Municipal Building, 231 Third Street.PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center "In Their Own Voices," writers and composers reading and performing excerpts from their own works in progress. Monday to March 3. Free. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; www.mccarter.org.THEATERCHESTER Black River Playhouse "The Sisters Rosensweig," by Wendy Wasserstein, presented by the Chester Theater Group. Friday to March 15. $18. Black River Playhouse, Grove Street and Maple Avenue. (908) 879-7304.HACKENSACK Bergen County Academies Auditorium "The Secret Garden," musical based on the Frances Hodgson Burnett book. Friday at 7:30 p.m. and March 1 at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. $10 and $12. Bergen County Academies Auditorium, 200 Hackensack Avenue. (201) 837-1980.HADDONFIELD Haddonfield Plays and Players Theater "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," drama by Dale Wasserman. Through March 8. $14 and $16. Haddonfield Plays and Players Theater, 957 East Atlantic Avenue. (856) 429-8139.MILLBURN Paper Mill Playhouse "The Miracle Worker," drama by William Gibson. Through Feb. 24. $25 to $92. "Steel Magnolias," drama by Robert Harling. March 5 through April 6. $29.25 to $88.25. Paper Mill Playhouse, 3 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; www.papermill.org.NEW BRUNSWICK George Street Playhouse "The Scene," comedy by Theresa Rebeck. Tuesday to March 23. $28 to $62. George Street Playhouse, 9 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7717; www.georgestplayhouse.org.NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater "Three Ways to Get a Husband," drama presented by I'm Ready Productions. Wednesday at 8 p.m. $29.50 to $44.50. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; www.statetheatrenj.org.NEW HYDE PARK Herricks Community Center "The Rimers of Eldritch," mystery play. Through Feb. 24. Free. Herricks Community Center, 999 Herricks Road. (516) 877-4010.OAKLYN Ritz Theater "Thoroughly Modern Millie," musical. Through Friday. $20 to $30. Ritz Theater, 915 White Horse Pike. (856) 858-5230; www.ritztheatreco.org.ORADELL Little Firehouse Theater "Angel Street," presented by the Bergen County Players. Through March 8. $5 to $19. Little Firehouse Theater, 298 Kinderkamack Road. (201) 261-4200.PARAMUS Bergen Community College "Proof," drama by David Auburn. Through March 2. $5 and $10. Bergen Community College, 400 Paramus Road. (201) 447-7428.PERRYVILLE Hunterdon Hills Playhouse "Barefoot in the Park," comedy by Neil Simon. Through March 18. $53 to $61.50. Hunterdon Hills Playhouse, 88 Route 173 West. (800) 447-7313; www.hhplayhouse.com.PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center "Eclipsed," drama by Danai Gurira. March 6 at 7:30 p.m. "The Mad 7," musical written and performed by Yehuda Hyman. Through March 9. $12. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; www.mccarter.org.SOMERSET Villagers Theatre "Little Women," musical version of Louisa May Alcott's novel, with music by Jason Howland. Through Friday. $18. Villagers Theater, 415 DeMott Lane. (732) 873-2710; www.villagerstheatre.com.SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center "The Merchant of Venice," by William Shakespeare, directed by James McGlone. Friday at 7:30 p.m. $8 to $15. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; www.sopacnow.org.MUSEUMS AND GALLERIESATLANTIC CITY Atlantic City Art Center "The Negro Baseball League," artistic posters by  contestants and winners of the Atlantic City Department of Recreation poster contest in celebration of Black History Month. Through Friday. Free. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Atlantic City Art Center, New Jersey Avenue and the Boardwalk. (609) 347-5837.CAMDEN  Camden County Historical Society "Lullaby for Dreamland: The Dreamland Cafe in Lawnside," historic photographs of jazz clubs and other night life in Lawnside, the first incorporated African-American town north of the Mason-Dixon line. Through April 10. Free. Hours: Sundays noon to 5 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays 12:30 to 4:30 p.m. Camden County Historical Society, 1900 Park Boulevard. (856) 964-3333; www.cchsnj.com.CAPE MAY Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts "Proudly We Serve: Our African American Military Experience, From the Civil War Forward," an exhibit that highlights the contributions of African-Americans in photographs and artifacts. Through April 13. $1 and $2; free with a tour: $5 and $10. Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts, 1048 Washington Street. (609) 884-5404; www.capemaymac.org.CLIFTON Clifton Arts Center "Interwoven Influences," exhibition and sale of tapestry by New York artists. Through March 1. $1. Clifton Arts Center, 900 Clifton Avenue. (973) 472-5499.CLINTON Hunterdon Museum of Art "Cuba! Artists Experience Their Country," an exhibition exploring the social, cultural and political aspects of Cuban life. Through March 30. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415.CRANFORD Tomasulo Gallery, Union County College "Hero and Monster," an exhibition of mixed-media works by Victor Davson. Through March 6. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays and Saturdays, 1 to 4 p.m. Additional hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 6 to 9 p.m. Tomasulo Gallery, Union County College, 1033 Springfield Avenue. (908) 709-7155.DEMAREST Mikhail Zakin Gallery  An exhibition of drawings by Zaria Forman and Catherine Minnery. Through March 7. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Mikhail Zakin Gallery, 561 Piermont Road. (201) 767-7160; www.tasoc.org.ENGLEWOOD Englewood Public Library "Of a Kindred Spirit," an exhibition of portraits by the painter Kimanne Smith. Through Friday. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Englewood Public Library, 31 Engle Street. (201) 568-2215; www.englewoodlibrary.org.HANOVER Morris County Library "Celebrating Black American Artist Peter Ambush," an exhibition featuring  his work. Through March 6. Free. Morris County Library, 30 East Hanover Avenue in Whippany. (973) 285-6939.HOPEWELL Gallery 14 "Translations," photographs by Rhoda Kassof-Isaac. Through March 9. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Gallery 14, 14 Mercer Street. (609) 333-8511.JERSEY CITY  Grassroots Arts Facility "Introversions," paintings by Gordon Fraser. Through March 21. Thursdays through Saturdays, 3 to 8 p.m. Grassroots Arts Facility, 143 Christopher Columbus Drive. (610) 209-5059.JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center "Race: Are We So Different?" Exhibition bringing together the experience of living with race, its history as an idea and the role of science in that history. Through April 27. $11.50 and $15.75. Liberty Science Center, Liberty State Park, 251 Phillip Street. (201) 200-1000; www.lsc.org.MORRIS TOWNSHIP Morris Museum "Stepping Out in Style: Outerwear of the Last 150 Years." Through May 4. $6 to $8; free on Thursdays, from 5 to 8 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700; www.morrismuseum.org.MORRISTOWN Simon Gallery Acrylic on canvas, paintings by Sabine Friesicke. Through Friday. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Simon Gallery, 48 Bank Street. (973) 538-5456.NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation "Dynamic Color: Paintings by Joseph Domjan." Through March 1. $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. (732) 846-5777.NEWARK The Newark Museum "Glass Beads of Ghana,"  exhibition  of beads made with varied techniques and materials. Through June 15. "O, Write My Name: American Portraits — Harlem Heroes," portrait photographs by Carl Van Vechten taken between 1930 and 1960. Through June 15, 2009. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., October through June; and Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m., July through September. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6493; www.newarkmuseum.org.
