CLASSICALHILARY HAHN AND JOSH RITTER There has recently been an admirable trend toward classical musicians performing in unorthodox spaces,   like Brooklyn bars. There they eschew rigid formality for a more intimate and congenial atmosphere similar, in some ways, to that of a 19th-century salon. The charismatic young violinist Hilary Hahn, above,   says  it should be a two-way street, with musicians outside the classical tradition invited to appear alongside classical musicians in concert halls.Ms. Hahn has been touring with Josh Ritter, an indie folk singer-songwriter whose romantic songs and intelligent lyrics are vibrantly illuminated by his earthy, unaffected voice. Ms. Hahn says  that "what audiences value in me and him should be compatible," and that she and Mr. Ritter are "two people on the same kind of turf."On Saturday at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Ms. Hahn will perform Bach's Sonata No. 2  in A minor for Solo Violin, Ysaÿe's Sonata No. 5 in G  for Solo Violin and   Nielsen's "Prelude and Theme With Variations."  Mr. Ritter will sing his own songs, including "Potter's Wheel," inspired by Schubert; "Kathleen," an interpretation of a traditional Irish  ballad; "Thin Blue Flame"; and the "Temptation of Adam."Their solo selections also reflect each other's repertory: Ms. Hahn will perform Ernst's variations on  the Irish  melody "The Last Rose of Summer" and his Caprice for Solo Violin after Schubert's "Erlkönig"; Mr. Ritter will sing "The Oak Tree King," his adaptation of  "Erlkönig,"  and his own version of "The "Last Rose of Summer." They will also collaborate on a few selections, with Ms. Hahn improvising.After the concert the two musicians will head downtown to Drom in the East Village, where Ms. Hahn will perform excerpts from her new album featuring the Schoenberg and Sibelius concertos. She will also join Mr. Ritter and the singer-songwriters Tom Brosseau and Gabriel Kahane on selections of their original works. (At 8 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, 212-570-3949, metmuseum.org; sold out.  Postconcert event  at 10:30 p.m., Drom, 85 Avenue A, between Fifth and Sixth Streets, East Village, 212-777-1157, dromnyc.com; $5.) VIVIEN SCHWEITZER Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.Opera'LA BOHÈME' (Saturday and Tuesday) Franco Zeffirelli's busy 1981 production returns, offering audiences ample opportunity to watch both the principals and the army of choristers and extras engaging in the pointless gesturing and aimless loping about that passes for acting in an opera house. The cast includes Angela Gheorghiu as a supple Mimi; Ramón Vargas as a warm-toned, if restrained,  Rodolfo; and Ainhoa Arteta as a colorful, flamboyant Musetta. Nicola Luisotti conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Allan Kozinn)'CANDIDE' (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) This 1982 Harold Prince staging may not be the best of all possible "Candide" productions, but then, no one has ever agreed on what is. And given the work's history of revisions, reorchestrations, cuts, restorations and additions, the possibilities are numerous. For a listener in the mood for a frenetic, comic-book staging, this one makes a diverting evening, and, of course, the charms of Mr. Bernstein's tuneful score are not to be underestimated.  Friday and Thursday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 1:30 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 1:30 p.m.; Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m.; New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Kozinn)★ 'EDGAR' (Sunday)  Puccini's first full-length opera was a dispiriting failure at its 1889 premiere. Set in Flanders in 1302, it tells of two women who are both in love with restless young Edgar. Puccini revised the teeming score twice, producing a definitive and compact, if dramatically cumbersome, version in 1905. But he was never convinced of the opera's merits. Die-hard Puccini fans have felt differently, including Eve Queler, who is conducting a concert performance with the essential Opera Orchestra of New York. Ms. Queler has recruited a stellar cast, led by the tenor Marcello Giordani as Edgar, the soprano Latonia Moore as Fidelia, and the mezzo-soprano Jennifer Larmore as Tigrana. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $25 to $125.(Anthony Tommasini)★ 'THE GAMBLER' (Saturday) An early success in Valery Gergiev's campaign to bring great Russian operas to New York was the Metropolitan Opera 2001 premiere production of Prokofiev's shattering second opera, "The Gambler," based on the novella by Dostoyevsky. The garishly alluring production, directed by Temur Chkheidze from the Kirov Opera in St. Petersburg, Russia, has returned to the Met, with a compelling cast and Mr. Gergiev again conducting a blazing account of this score. The story follows the downfall of Alexei, a young man with a university pedigree and a gambling addiction.  The powerhouse tenor Vladimir Galouzine sings the daunting title role. At 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $120 to $220. (Tommasini)★ 'SATYAGRAHA' (Friday and Monday) Philip Glass's second opera  —  his first with an orchestral score  —  has a fascinating dual focus. Its characters and action describe Gandhi's early years as a lawyer in South Africa, when he developed his philosophy of nonviolence as a means for social change. But the libretto, sung in Sanskrit, is drawn from the Bhagavad-Gita. It is a supremely moving work on both levels, and this second New York staging (the first was at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1981) is woefully overdue. Phelim McDermott directs this production, first seen at the English National Opera, and the tenor Richard Croft sings Gandhi. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $205 on Friday; $80 to $175 on Monday. (Kozinn)Classical MusicAKADEMIE FÜR ALTE MUSIK (Wednesday) This Berlin-based early-music ensemble offers a concert focusing on Bach and Vivaldi and lesser-known Baroque composers. The program includes Vivaldi's Concerto for Strings and Continuo in G minor (RV 152); Marcello's Oboe Concerto in D minor (with ornaments by J. S. Bach); Graun's Concerto for Viola da Gamba, Strings and Basso Continuo in A minor; Erlebach's Overture No. 5 in F; and Bach's Harpsichord Concerto in D minor (BWV 1052). At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $56 to $62.(Vivien Schweitzer)KATHLEEN BATTLE (Sunday) Some opera fans may prefer to remember this soprano from her glory years during the 1980s at the Metropolitan Opera as an enchanting Sophie in Strauss's "Rosenkavalier," an exquisite Susanna in Mozart's "Nozze di Figaro" and other roles. But erratic behavior and personal troubles undermined her artistry and career in the 1990s. During the last 10 years  her appearances in New York have dwindled, and her singing has been marred by expressive affectations and technical insecurity. Her faithful admirers have a chance to hear her again, and hope for the best, in a recital at Carnegie Hall. At 2 p.m.,  (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $29 to $100. (Tommasini)CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Sunday) The admirable Orion String Quartet continues its 20th-anniversary celebrations with a performance of Beethoven. The program includes the warmhearted "Harp" Quartet and two of his late quartets, the F major (Op. 135) and the B flat major (Op. 130), which the Orion will play with the original ending, the daunting "Grosse Fuge." At 5 p.m., New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; sold out. (Schweitzer)★ EIGHTH BLACKBIRD (Thursday) "Nothing is Beatle-proof," as a line from the film "Yellow Submarine" says. This virtuosic new-music ensemble, based in Chicago, offers the New York premiere of "Singing in the Dead of Night," a collaboration by the three Bang on a Can composers — David Lang (who recently won the Pulitzer Prize for music), Michael Gordon and Julia Wolfe —  in a presentation choreographed by Susan Marshall. The title, which is also the title of the movement composed by Ms. Wolfe, is from the opening line of the Beatles' song "Blackbird." Mr. Lang's and Mr. Gordon's movement titles  —  "These Broken Wings" and "The Light of the Dark"  —  also come from that Beatles tune. The program also includes Steve Reich's Double Sextet, also a New York premiere. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall,  (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $28 to $40. (Kozinn)★ ENSEMBLE ACJW AND AXIOM (Friday, Sunday and Wednesday) The adventurous conductor James Conlon, currently in residency at the Juilliard School, presents a series of three chamber music concerts titled "Generative and Degenerative Music." On these programs Mr. Conlon, a tireless advocate for composers who were suppressed during the Nazi era, juxtaposes works that the Nazi cultural police deemed "degenerate," by composers like Hans Krasa (who later died at Auschwitz), with  infectious scores created outside the party's reach by composers like Poulenc and Antheil. Friday's concert at Zankel Hall features the Ensemble ACJW, made up of young fellowship artists in a training institute run by Juilliard and Carnegie Hall. Two free programs at John Jay College Theater, on Sunday and Wednesday, present students from the Axiom ensemble at Juilliard. Ensemble ACJW: Friday at 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall,  (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $15. Axiom: Sunday at 3 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., John Jay College Theater, 899 10th Avenue, at 58th Street, Clinton, (212) 769-7406; free, but tickets are required. (Tommasini)EUROPA GALANTE (Saturday) This vibrant period-instrument ensemble, directed by Fabio Biondi, offers works from French, German, English and Italian composers that reflect music from other countries. The program includes Galuppi's "Alla Francese," Muffat's "Jeunes Espagñol," Biber's "Barbares" and selections by Telemann and Vivaldi. At 8 p.m., Miller Theater, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com; $35; $21 for students; $30 for 65+. (Schweitzer)★ INGRID FLITER (Thursday) In 2006  this Argentine pianist  became the fifth recipient of the prestigious Gilmore Artist Award, which carries a cash prize of $300,000, and the first woman to be so honored. At her New York debut recital last year at Zankel Hall she proved a formidable pianist who eluded easy description, at times cool and brilliant, at other times rhapsodic and expressive. There should be great interest among lovers of the piano when Ms. Fliter presents a recital at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, with works by Schubert, Beethoven and Chopin (including the great Sonata in B minor). At 8 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $45. (Tommasini)NATHAN GUNN (Tuesday) This dashing American baritone joins his wife, the pianist Julie Gunn, in a program centered on music by Messiaen and Frank Ferko. Dancing, lighting effects and video are included. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $34 to $40.  (Bernard Holland)KING'S COLLEGE CHOIR (Friday) Under the direction of Stephen Cleobury,  this renowned British choir  —  created when King Henry VI founded the college in 1441  —  will perform a varied program of choral music by Gibbons, Tomkins, Weelkes, Bach, Poulenc, Britten and Walton. At 7:30 p.m., St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street, (212) 757-7013, saintthomaschurch.org; $25 and $45. (Schweitzer)MINNESOTA ORCHESTRA (Sunday) The Minnesota players have been greatly re-energized by their conductor, Osmo Vanska. The music here is by Sibelius ("The Dryad") and Mahler (the First Symphony), with Lars Vogt as soloist in the Schumann Piano Concerto. At 3 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $35 to $69.(Holland)ANNE-SOPHIE MUTTER (Monday) One of the best and most imaginative violinists among us returns to Carnegie Hall with an all-Brahms program played with her regular partner, the pianist Lambert Orkis. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall,  (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $32 to $108.(Holland)NEW YORK FESTIVAL OF SONG (Tuesday) This edition of a long-running vocal series concentrates on Russian music and French composers responding to it. Dina Kuznetsova, Nicholas Phan and Anton Belov are the singers. Steven Blier is the pianist. At 8 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $48.  (Holland)ANDRAS SCHIFF (Wednesday) The distinguished Hungarian pianist is in the process of playing all 32 Beethoven Piano Sonatas. Here he plays five, all part of the composer's late-early (or is it early-middle?) period. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $31 to $105.  (Holland)★ STRAVINSKY FESTIVAL (Thursday) This five-part festival presented by Miller Theater kicks off with a concert devoted to this composer's complete songs, a genre he addressed between 1902 and 1966. The performers are Tony Arnold, soprano; Alison Tupay, mezzo-soprano; Gregory Warren, tenor; Craig Phillips, bass-baritone; and Matthew Worth, baritone, supported by the energetic young players of the International Contemporary Ensemble. At 7:30 p.m., Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com; $45. (Kozinn)In the months before his death in February, at 75, the renowned choral conductor Richard Westenburg, who founded the estimable Musica Sacra Chorus and Orchestra in 1964, was still hoping to conduct the performance of Bach's Mass in B minor that took place on Tuesday night at Carnegie Hall. Though grappling with colon cancer, Mr. Westenburg kept playing through the score from beginning to end in his mind, as  Kent Tritle, Mr. Westenburg's former student, close colleague and handpicked successor as music director of Musica Sacra, wrote in a program note.It fell to Mr. Tritle to conduct the ensemble in Bach's monumental Mass on Tuesday. The performance was dedicated to the memory of Mr. Westenburg. As an additional tribute, the insightful program notes that Mr. Westenburg wrote for his last performance of the Mass with Musica Sacra in 2001 were reprinted in the program booklet.As Mr. Westenburg explains in the essay, during the last decade of his life Bach "brought together his only complete setting of the text of the Mass." There is no evidence that the Mass was performed complete during Bach's lifetime, he adds. But the insight most salient to the performance was Mr. Westenburg's call for musicians today to find a balance of historical knowledge, intuition and practicality in presenting this astounding score. Like Mr. Westenburg, Mr. Tritle, best known as the director of music ministries at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola on Park Avenue, balances informed knowledge of the history and performance practices of the Baroque era with savvy practicality.With a roster of 41 choristers and 27 orchestra players, Mr. Tritle set the tone for this reverent, vibrantly realized performance of Bach's daunting score in the first Kyrie  chorus. Often conductors cannot resist milking the anguished opening chords for maximum impact. Here, true to the text ("Lord, have mercy upon us"), the music came across as a full-voiced, respectful and slightly hesitant plea. That attitude of poignant urgency was maintained as the complex movement continued. It was not from amassed volume, but through the steady pileup of contrapuntal voices in the climax of the Kyrie that the power of the prayerful music registered. Surely hearing the sheer multiplicity of voices, the good Lord would have to heed this soulful plea.Throughout the performance here were excellent, well-rehearsed and self-effacing musicians presenting one of the monuments of music. Though the Gloria swept by in a joyous triple meter, the chorus and orchestra played with articulate clarity. During the animated "Cum Sancto Spiritu" chorus that concludes the Gloria, the spiraling lines of elaborate 16th-note passage work sounded like large swaths of shifting, pulsating, almost Impressionistic harmonies.The vocal soloists did honorable work in the arias: the soprano Jamet Pittman, the countertenor Michael Chance, the tenor Jonathan Goodman and the bass Kevin Deas.Mr. Westenburg would surely have been pleased.LEONA LEWIS"Spirit"(J Records/SyCo Music/Sony BMG)Moments after performing her breakout hit, "Bleeding Love," on "The Oprah Winfrey Show" last month, the British R&B singer Leona Lewis fielded a question from the admiring host. "Obviously everybody compares you to, you know, all the greats," Ms. Winfrey said, citing Mariah Carey and Whitney Houston. "What does that feel like for you?"Ms. Lewis fidgeted slightly. "It's a big compliment," she said. "I mean, they're incredible, and they've had such long, successful careers." She placed particular emphasis on one word, "long." Then she hastily added, "I could only hope to one day follow in their footsteps."If this wasn't an "All About Eve" moment —  picture Ms. Lewis as a starry-eyed but steely Eve Harrington, helping her idols toward obsolescence  — it was at least intriguingly evocative of one. Especially in retrospect, now that Ms. Lewis has seen her stated hope both fulfilled and forestalled: "Bleeding Love" topped the singles charts two weeks ago only to be displaced last week by "Touch My Body," the 18th No. 1 hit by Ms. Carey.Not that Ms. Lewis, who just turned 23, is fazed by competition. She came to the public eye in 2006 as the winner of "X Factor,"  Simon Cowell's "American Idol"-like British television show. Then she took her time with "Spirit," her maiden release. Mr. Cowell and Clive Davis share an executive producer credit on the album, which made its debut at No. 1 in Britain last year. It seems poised for something other than failure here.Not surprisingly "Spirit" is designed with one chief purpose: to showcase a titanium-caliber voice. And in that sense it works well. On "Bleeding Love" Ms. Lewis brings straightforward drama to the notion of a heart torn open. And she shows that she isn't afraid to invoke the sound of her predecessors, finishing one phrase  —  "I'll be wearing these scars for everyone to see"  —  with a Whitney-esque flip into her soprano range.Beyond that lead single, produced by Ryan Tedder of OneRepublic, the results start to feel uneven. There are some rewardingly airtight ballads involving Ne-Yo ("I'm You") and the Norwegian production team Stargate ("Angel"), and an upbeat anthem partly produced by Dallas Austin ("Whatever It Takes"). There's also a powerhouse rendition of "I Will Be," a song by Avril Lavigne and the hit-making team of Max Martin and Dr. Luke.But a lot of "Spirit" feels soggy with sentiment. "Better in Time" and "Yesterday" (not the Beatles tune) do nothing to flatter Ms. Lewis, and "The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face" provokes a strangely turgid interpretation. Then there's "Footprints in the Sand," loosely based on the popular inspirational poem; somehow this was Mr. Cowell's idea.Ms. Lewis seems likely to survive these missteps, if only by the sheer force of her talent. So what if she sounds like a second-tier Mariah on "Forgive Me," a shuffle produced by Akon? As Ms. Carey keeps reminding us, that isn't the worst thing in the world.  NATE CHINENFOALS"Antidotes"(Sub Pop)Foals make hard, trebly, uncomfortable, spiky, anxious, uptight, straining-to-be-different music, and for all that, it's rather good. Fumes of energy and ambition roll off "Antidotes," this Oxford band's first album, though it's important to say up front that depending on your nervous system  — and your tolerance for English post-punk mannerism — you might find it grating. There's a huge emphasis on upbeats, adenoidal chants, ropy or stabbing or twinkly guitar lines, tempos and arrangements that are claustrophobic and too fast, all for reasons of style.The quintet's album was produced by Dave Sitek of TV on the Radio, and he used the studio. He made more of Foals than is naturally there. He added some horns, for one thing (by members of Antibalas Afrobeat Orchestra), and brought echo and texture and atmosphere to a band whose sound is as narrow as a Giacometti sculpture. He expanded it, broadened it and  — just slightly  — cooled it out."Antidotes" is a record by arty young men of a certain place and time, but on the other hand it's cleverly nonspecific; it keeps veering away from how you want to typify it. "Like Swimming," an instrumental with a stomp rhythm, hand claps, and knots of high-pitched, twin-guitar lines, suddenly slides into digital noise before ending; in many songs, those light-gauge guitar melodies are fighting against the drummer's hard, dance-floor thwack.Those guitar patterns imply a fondness for Senegalese mbalax music, but then again Africanisms have been in all kinds of clever non-African music that Foals are no doubt aware of: Steve Reich's work, and also the English post-punk bands of years ago, like the Slits and Pigbag. Some things are just in the air. BEN RATLIFFELLIS MARSALIS QUARTET"An Open Letter to Thelonious"(Elm Records)Thelonious Monk's songs leave no place for a musician to hide. They're pointless if the harmonies aren't properly brought out, or if they're played dishonestly or glibly. They're like little teachers, hectoring you to do your best, and that's probably why other musicians playing Monk's music — including Steve Lacy, Alexander von Schlippenbach, Jerry Gonzalez, Danilo Perez, Randy Weston, Tommy Flanagan and lots of others — have made some of their own best work in the process.Maybe too — as the drummer Jason Marsalis puts it in the liner notes to a new album by his father, Ellis — it helps that Monk was the "first unofficial funk musician." (Jason Moran has said much the same thing.) That stutter-stepping funk is built into a lot of Monk's compositions, and those who approach them can't ignore it. Here it comes out most often in the rhythm section, between Jason Marsalis and the bassist Jason Stewart. In tunes like "Teo" and "Jackie-ing," the drummer establishes a raw, banging funk up front, then later falls into 4/4 swing that makes the switch a logical transition. Anyone who has admired the younger  Marsalis's drum solos — structured, exacting, often built on parade rhythm, and frequently weird  — will find a few brilliant ones here.Derek Douget, an underrated saxophonist from New Orleans, is the dry and smart-sounding saxophonist in the quartet. And Ellis Marsalis, at 73 a lucid, subtle, laconic pianist, shines up these tunes, leaving sufficient space while weaving phrases in and around the solos. Clearly this music has gotten into his bloodstream — you can tell by how alert and relaxed the record sounds. But he hasn't taken on Monk's surface mannerisms or technique; his touch is much less jagged. He's not trying to be Monk, he's just living up to the lessons of the songs. BEN RATLIFFANTI-FLAG"The Bright Lights of America"(RCA/Sony BMG)Anguished, earnest, adrenalized: such is the emotional palette of Anti-Flag, a Pittsburgh punk band with a method nearly as subtle as its name. On "The Bright Lights of America," its eighth full-length release, the group rails against the Iraq war, suburban blight and "neo-Christian theocrats," among other things. In the spirit of adolescence (and yes, a strain of punk), the album's tone combines bitter irreverence with ardent idealism.Anti-Flag has been banging this particular drum for the better part of 20 years. The guitarist-singer Justin Sane and the drummer Pat Thetic started playing together in the late 1980s; their noms de guerre can still make them seem more like disaffected teenagers than revolutionaries. But their sound  —  enhanced by the energies of a second guitarist, Chris Head, and a bassist, Chris #2  —  literally urges participation. Every song's chorus helpfully comes prearranged as a sing-along: no room for sullenness here.There is, however, ample room for contradiction. Given that Anti-Flag once recorded a song called "N.B.C. (No Bloodthirsty Corporations)," it still feels odd that the band is releasing its music through a division of Sony BMG. "The Bright Lights of America" even features production by a seasoned head, Tony Visconti, who brings brightness and grandeur to the equation. His use of timpani, tubular bells and a children's choir calls to mind the recent sweep of Green Day and My Chemical Romance, two punkish bands that probably wouldn't register as sufficiently hardcore among the Anti-Flag faithful.Yet the influence of leftist broadsides looms over the band's lyrics, in syntax as well as substance. This helps explain the number of times that Justin Sane follows a pithy phrase with a clunky one. "How did we get into this mess?" he cries, kick-starting "The Modern Rome Burning." Then: "The question is a hypothetical/The answers are written on the face of the oppressed."Not all the invective is so heavy-handedly doctrinaire. "We've been sold, been sold a bill of lies" feels direct enough, especially as barked in the style of the Clash. And an anthem called "We Are the Lost" ends with this clearheaded promise: "We may fail to see a change but we're never going to fade away." There's a hint of role playing in that line, but it's still a good one, especially for a band this palpably sincere. NATE CHINEN The pianist Peter Serkin does not like being described as a champion of contemporary music. As he has said, his excitement for new music is a natural extension of his excitement for all music. He enjoys presenting programs that intriguingly juxtapose the old and the new, as his recital on Saturday night at the 92nd Street Y excitingly demonstrated.He began with a Renaissance vocal motet by Josquin, "Ave Christe," reset for piano in 1988 by the composer Charles Wuorinen. This austerely beautiful piece is thick with slow-moving contrapuntal lines. Yet every detail came through in Mr. Serkin's calmly assured performance. At times Josquin's wide-spaced harmonies seemed like premonitions of mystical passages from the late Beethoven piano sonatas.Mr. Serkin's performance had the effect of inviting the audience into a contemplative state, a mood sustained throughout the next work, Messiaen's "Petites Esquisses d'Oiseaux," though the music could not have been more different. Messiaen's lifelong fascination with bird song is captured in this 15-minute suite from 1985, a fantastical portrait of a robin, blackbird, song thrush and skylark. The exuberant and rippling music is full of literal transcriptions of skittish bird calls, punctuated by outbursts of keyboard-spanning arpeggios and pungent chords that sound like depictions of flocks of birds taking frenzied flight.After this Mr. Serkin took the audience back into a pensive state with Brahms's Theme and Variations in D minor, his transcription of the slow movement from his early Sextet for Strings in B flat. In its contrapuntal severity the music looked back to Bach, but in its wayward harmonies it hinted at the path-breaking Brahms to come in later years.Somehow these pieces set the ideal mood for the premiere of Mr. Wuorinen's Scherzo for Piano, a 92nd Street Y commission. After the intensity of the Josquin and Brahms the audience needed to let loose, and Mr. Serkin's exhilarating performance of this dazzling, 10-minute tour de force gave listeners the chance to do so. Mr. Wuorinen is a formidably complex composer. But like many of his scores, this one crackles with viscerally exciting activity.After the stern opening, when a six-note motive is bluntly stated, the piece becomes a frenetic, perpetual-motion fantasy. Yet, amid the spiraling flights and blasts of jerky chords, a halting thematic line threads through the textures. Mr. Serkin played the piece with uncanny clarity and wondrous colorings. When the composer took the stage for a bow, he was greeted  more by  whoops  than bravos, which seemed right.After intermission Mr. Serkin gave an unusually thoughtful account of Brahms's Variations and Fugue on a Theme by Handel in B flat, a virtuosic work often milked for showiness. He emphasized the contrasts in the variations, as Brahms turns Handel's fussily ornamented Baroque tune into a Gypsy dance, a rigorous canon, a siciliano and whatnot. During the ethereal variation in G minor Mr. Serkin played as if   channeling the music from another realm. Yet the propulsive variations were jolted with steely fortissimo chords. The   fugue built inexorably to a cascade of octaves and chords in its triumphant final moments."We're going to give you some more of that radio music you want to hear," the guitarist Carlos Santana told the audience at Madison Square Garden on Tuesday night. "But right now we're going to stretch out a little bit." That glimpse into the way Mr. Santana thinks about his music revealed how well he understands the gap between tersely edited, hook-touting pop songs for radio and the percussion-driven jams he unleashes onstage.It's a more formatted music world now than it was when Santana, his band, arrived in the late 1960s, and Mr. Santana has grown more savvy about both parts of his job. While he has had ups and downs as a hit maker  —  since his blockbuster  "Supernatural" (Arista)  in 1999, he has  made albums full of short songs and guest musicians —  onstage he's been doing virtually the same exhilarating thing for the last four decades. The radio hits are only part of a set that revolves around supercharged improvisation. It still works.Mr. Santana gives his concerts a '60s frame. An opening video showed a violent world followed by utopian exhortations to be "architects of the new dawn." The real utopian vision is in the music, which cruises an African diaspora. In the course of Tuesday's two-and-a-half-hour set the music quoted Coltrane, Hendrix, Tito Puente, Miles Davis, Mongo Santamaria, the Beatles, Gershwin and "Aquarius" (from "Hair"). When the lyrics weren't about treacherous women —  a thread running through Santana hits from "Black Magic Woman" to "Smooth" — they were about hopes for a better world. And that world is summoned directly in the music's euphoric synergy.The band has skillful  singers: Tony Lindsay leaning toward R&B, Andy Vargas rooted in salsa, although both of them sing in English and Spanish (and a few words of French). Yet its strongest voice is Mr. Santana's guitar, which constantly asserts itself between vocal lines before taking over fully.He learned his bending, wailing notes from B. B. King, but his tone and attack are instantly recognizable, as is the basic arc of his solos: fervent but terse melody statements heading for frenetic scales and trills that lead to even more frenetic tremolos, able to match his Latin percussion section impact for impact. Mr. Santana can shred as well as any speed-crazed guitarist alive, but unlike most of them he maintains the vocalistic phrasing and keening sense of meditation he draws from jazz in general and Coltrane in particular.The slide guitarist Derek Trucks —  whose jam band opened the concert, also dipping into Coltrane for a far-reaching "My Favorite Things" —  sat in with Mr. Santana. He was skillful and methodical, pinpointing melodies and working through modal permutations. Alongside him Mr. Santana sounded even more flamboyant, a virtuoso and crowd pleaser with a mission —  still, long after the '60s, reaching for ecstasy.Deep Purple's 1973 hit "Smoke on the Water" features the greatest guitar riff of all time, according to a poll by a London music school that has taught members of bands like Radiohead, the Kinks and the Cure, Reuters reported. The majority of the 25 songs selected by current students of the London Tech Music School were recorded in the 1960s, '70s and '80s. Only seven were recorded in the last 20 years. The most recent was "7 Nation Army," recorded by the White Stripes in 2003; the oldest was "Johnny B. Goode," recorded by Chuck Berry, above, in 1958. Other songs include "Purple Haze" by Jimi Hendrix (1967), "Walk This Way" by Aerosmith (1975) and "Money for Nothing" by Dire Straits (1984).FLYING is never simple for me. It's not really a simple process for anyone these days, but I have a permanent challenge. I travel with a cello. Depending on my energy level and the actual amount of support or resistance I encounter from security or fellow passengers, my cello brings about moments of connection, amusement, anxiety or intense frustration. Often all in the same trip.The band travels all over the United States and abroad, playing or recording with everyone from rock stars like Lenny Kravitz, Sheryl Crow and Roger Daltrey to more traditional artists like those of the New York Chamber Symphony.While we do perform in large cities, we also travel to smaller, more remote destinations under a program we call  TruckStop. It's an 11-stop, 10-month long tour, and we figure we'll log about 40,000 miles across the world.With this program, we are developing relationships with artists from various cultures, like  Native American or Hawaiian musicians, writing and improvising together to produce a whole new body of work. No string quartet has ever done this before since it resembles the craft of the rock band far more than that of the classical artist.It will be a wonderful experience for everyone. But the trials will be in the travel.While the band members take separate flights to our gigs, each of us always travels with our musical instrument.My cello was built in 1695. My father bought it for me when I was just 21 years old. And like any old creature, it has moods varying from cranky to surprisingly sweet. Those moods can be spurred by what we have to go through to get from point A to point B when we travel.There are many ways to carry a cello. I carry mine on my back, with a kind of Rube Goldberg backpack mount. The cello  weighs only 18 pounds, but it is terribly ungainly. I'm a slender person, but put the cello on me, and I become the size of a doublewide trailer. Fortunately, I have never knocked out anyone out as I try to get to my assigned seat on the plane.Once the cello and I make it on board, I may get some questions. Some airline personnel, especially when tired or stressed, are sticklers for a regulation that requires oversize items to occupy a bulkhead seat. The cello can be secured in a completely satisfactory way in any seat, as long as it blocks no one's exit. It can even be mounted so that it does not infringe on the ability of the passenger ahead to lean back.Ironically, especially on smaller flights, the bulkhead seats are often available only in first class. So my dear silent companion has ridden in style, oblivious to the privilege, while I'm in coach.I have found that despite the troubles I sometimes encounter, the cello is a great conversation starter.The best part for me is the spontaneous connection I derive with people when they see me carrying it. It evokes their appreciation of music, their curiosity, and often, fond memories of childhood music lessons.I treasure the brief insights they share and their respect for the art. With a cello on my back, I never travel alone.AS part of a promotion for the tiny Fortwo in the United States, publicists at Smart arranged a visit for auto journalists to the Computer History Museum in the Silicon Valley city of Mountain View, Calif. The automaker, part of the Daimler corporate family alongside Mercedes-Benz, wanted to point out that in the world of computers, evolution favors the small.Technological progress and prestige are marked by compression and reduction; compactness is a virtue in high-tech products like cellphones and computers.But "compact" and "subcompact" carry pejorative overtones when applied to cars, where greater size has long signaled power, prestige and security.As drivers in the United States grudgingly adapt to higher gasoline prices, automakers seem to be taking a greater interest in building smaller cars that are more than afterthoughts to larger, more profitable models. A look at the vehicles on display at the New York auto show last month suggests that the design of scaled-down models — often called B-class cars by the industry and city cars by marketers — is improving."City cars will become increasingly important, even in the U.S.," said James E. Press, the longtime Toyota executive who is now vice chairman at Chrysler, during a recent business conference at the Levin Institute in New York.Because cars of this size are sold in many countries, they have also come to be known as world cars.At the New York show, Ford displayed a design study called the Verve, a version of a new small car that will be sold as the Fiesta, a name Ford has used on its world car for decades. European sales start this fall with an American introduction in 2010.General Motors has added smaller models from Europe and Asia to its North American lines, including the Saturn Astra, sold by G.M.'s Opel and Vauxhall brands in Europe and Britain. Detroit automakers sell still smaller models like the Opel Corsa and Ford Ka overseas, but until recently there was little reason to consider bringing them to the United States.The Toyota Yaris and Nissan Versa are world cars whose sales have been expanded to the United States in recent years. A new version of Honda's rival to those models, the Fit, made its debut at the New York show, only two years after the last-generation model came to this country.The Fit, which is called the Jazz in other parts of the world, is available in about 100 countries. Now Honda is pitching it for cities: "With an aggressive new face, it's perfect for the hustle and bustle of metro-centric life styles," a Honda advertisement says.The B-class cars are increasing in popularity around the world. The so-called millenials, or Gen-Y buyers, that Ford hopes to attract with the Fiesta are accustomed to products that offer high value in small packages, said Peter Horbury, executive design director for the Americas at the Ford Motor Company.Ford researchers estimate that small-car sales around the world will grow to about 38 million in 2012, from 23 million in 2002. In the United States, Ford estimates total small-car sales of 3.4 million in 2012, an increase of 25 percent over a decade.The success of the Mini Cooper in the United States has changed the small-car market for both buyers and sellers. Buyers have come to expect that European automakers will offer models that are well-designed and space-efficient — and buyers will pay more for them."The assumption about a product is that if it is European it can be small and expensive," said Bryan Nesbitt, vice president for North American design at G.M. In a previous assignment at G.M.'s European design studios, Mr. Nesbitt oversaw work on models like the Opel Agila.But many models that flourish around the globe are not available in the United States. When the World Car of the Year was announced at the New York auto show, it was a small model unfamiliar to the locals: the Mazda 2. In the United States, the company's numbers go only as low as the Mazda 3.Americans have coveted the attractive small cars of Europe for years: a recent example is the new Fiat 500, a nostalgic update of a beloved people's car. Recent exchange-rate shifts will hurt the chances of such cars coming here: the recently announced Volkswagen Scirocco is too expensive to sell in this country, the company says, although its predecessors were hits here.Sales of South Korean models have relied heavily on low prices and long warranties, but now small models from Hyundai and Kia have grown more appealing. The Kia Koup, a design study that made its debut last month in New York, offers a sophisticated combination of European form and edgy American lines, reflecting the backgrounds of its creators: Peter Schreyer, formerly of Audi and now the chief design officer of Kia Motors, and Tom Kearns, formerly of Cadillac, who is today the chief designer at Kia's American design studio in Irvine, Calif., where the Koup was created.The body is solid and chunky; its beltline recalls a Detroit muscle car of the 1960s. A character line that the designers call the "swoosh and check"  runs from the front-door line back, providing the car a powerful graphic element that is recognizable from a distance. The Koup looks like a more expensive car, perhaps from Germany.Saab's concept car at the show presented a convincing adaptation of syling themes seen on the much-praised Aero X show car to a smaller vehicle. The 9-X BioHybrid could become the smallest Saab, possibly called the 9-1. Like the Volvo C30 and BMW 1 Series, Saab's offering suggests that even European luxury brands are thinking smaller.Many new models are likely to arrive in the market slot between the conventional compacts and the very smallest cars, like the Smart Fortwo or Toyota's new rival to the Smart, the iQ, which will not come to the United States. Volkswagen's Up family of cars, a set of concepts shown in Japan and Europe but not at the New York show, offers a vision of a global small car that can be dressed up or down, as a fashion designer might say, for markets around the world. A stripped version could sell in emerging economies and a more elaborately equipped one might be offered in Europe or the United States.The new, smaller cars are taking unconventional forms as well. In the past, many small cars appeared to be merely shrunken versions of larger siblings. Now we may see novel shapes that will be exclusive to small cars."We will see more small cars in the U.S. and they will be more different" in design, Shiro Nakamura, design director of Nissan, said in an interview at the New York show. More small niche models will appear, he said. He pointed to the Nissan Cube, due here next year. The boxy Cube, he said, comes from nonautomotive design traditions and is aimed at young people. "It is not for everyone," he said. "It does not smell of gasoline. It is more product design than automobile design."Changes in the design of smaller cars may be part of a deeper change in attitude of the sort that Smart's trip to the Computer History Museum brought out. The success of the Mini Cooper and the iPod have changed attitudes. Smallness signals cutting-edge technology: "thinnovation" is the cute portmanteau word that Apple uses in advertising for its laptop computers.The idea of small objects as packed with power may have migrated to the automotive world. But there is a difference: you fit your music on your iPod but you don't have to fit your legs into it.
