WANTAGH, N.Y., May 20  — Talk about a bait and switch. Surely some of the young people who came to see Gwen Stefani and Akon  at Jones Beach on Sunday night had seen the infamous video online. The one that depicted Akon in Trinidad, bumping and grinding and dragging a female fan —  a minor, it turned out  — all over the stage. The one that inspired a loud chorus of "Harrumph!" from the harrumphers. The one that spooked Verizon so much that it withdrew its sponsorship of this tour.Anyway, maybe some of these voyeuristic youngsters felt slightly let down by Akon's brief, genial set. No pastor's daughters were harmed during the performance. And he prefaced his one and only curse word with a warning: "Kids, close your ears."If Akon and (to a much lesser extent) Ms. Stefani make parents and telecommunications companies nervous, it's not because their music is unrelentingly filthy. On the contrary, it's  generally PG-rated. They both woo teen-pop fans without pretending to be teenagers and without quite forswearing grown-folks' talk. Akon's set included references to strip clubs and crime, and Ms. Stefani's included plenty of playful profanity. Is this child-friendly music, or not? These two see no reason to choose.It's easy to forget how long Ms. Stefani has been doing this: She has been singing with No Doubt for more than  two decades, and it has been 12 years since the band released "Tragic Kingdom," the glam-ska blockbuster that made her a star. Her short solo career  — two albums in three years — has been weird and entertaining: a riot of silly singles and memorable images, brittle beats and new-wave choruses, Broadway references and cheerleader chants.On Sunday she said, "Thank you so much for supporting me through the dance-record phase," and that last word was well-chosen. There is something slightly tentative about her solo songs, as if she constantly has to remind herself that it's all just a phase. There were some moments of inspired lunacy during her set (a version of "Yummy" set in a hallucinogenic bakery; a kaleidoscopic romp through "Wind It Up"), along with plenty of uninspired ones. (She fought a series of losing battles with ballads.) But nothing beat the sight of her wading out and up into the bleachers to sing "Cool"; there wasn't anything tentative about the way the kids screamed and surged.By contrast Akon is a minor celebrity but a major hitmaker: much less popular than Ms. Stefani at the merchandise table, but more popular, these days, on the pop charts. He has dominated the Top 10 this year, by himself and in collaboration with others, including Ms. Stefani; he produced their duet, "The Sweet Escape," the title track from her 2006 album. (That's also the name of this tour.)Ms. Stefani works overtime to stay relate-able ("I'm just an Orange County girl/Livin' in an extraordinary world," as she puts it), but Akon is irreducibly exotic: a Senegalese-American ex-convict who talked on Sunday about the difficulty he once had adjusting to American culture. His streetwise R&B expands the legacy of R. Kelly and Mary J. Blige, singers who found ways to appropriate hip-hop swagger and phrasing. Listen closely to Akon's deceptively simple refrains, and you'll hear many more influences: the sweet melancholy of reggae, the smooth sound of 1980s pop, unexpected intonations smuggled in from West Africa.His set was a casual assemblage of songs and fragments, and if he sometimes seemed to be leaning on recorded vocals, fans didn't mind.  They were too busy drowning him out. Especially during "Don't Matter," an international hit that seems like a strong contender for song of the year. (Is there any bar in the world where it wouldn't sound great?) And when it came time for "I Wanna Love You," he wisely hedged his bets: "I wanna"  — pause —  "you," he sang, letting audience members decide whether to do the radio version or the album version. Guess which version won?Medusa desperately wants a cha-cha partner in one of the songs Vinicio Capossela performed at Joe's Pub on Tuesday night, but of course there's the petrification problem. "Touch but don't look is a good rule to learn/Let me embrace you," she urges. Mr. Capossela wore a golden Medusa mask as he sang, but a smile was doubtless behind it.Mr. Capossela, a major star in Italy, was making his United States debut. With his scratchy voice and his fondness for various forms of oompah — waltzes, blues stomps, Kurt Weill cabaret, boleros, klezmer — Mr. Capossela is widely described as an Italian Tom Waits, and he embraces the connection. His backup band included Mr. Waits's frequent guitarist, Marc Ribot, playing bluesy, distorted lead guitar or plunking a banjo. In the course of the set, the music also touched on tarantella, old R&B, chanson, lullaby, honky-tonk, madrigal and movie themes, just for starters.Like Mr. Waits, Mr. Capossela sympathizes with "the drunk, the ugly, the damned," as he sang in one song, and he can write with eloquent simplicity about love and loneliness. "I have stones in my shoes and dust on my heart/Cold in the sun and words are not enough," he sang in the title song of his  recent studio album, "Ovunque Proteggi" ("Everywhere Protect") (Atlantic Italy).But he also has a rhapsodic European side, delving into myth and folklore and spinning oracular free associations. He started the set with "Non Trattare" ("Do Not Bargain"), with a modal tune hinting at Arabic and medieval Italian music, and lyrics about sin and apocalypse.Mr. Capossela's set at the tiny Joe's Pub scaled down the theatrical productions he mounts in Europe. Singing "Corvo Torvo" ("The Grim Crow"), he put on a top hat and flapped a feather-trimmed cape, screeching like a crow. At the end of the death-haunted love song "Con una Rosa" ("With a Rose"), he tossed rose petals into the audience. And in the course of the set, he became a grim prophet, a casual cynic, a fond suitor, a manic maharajah (in a sardonic song he dedicated to Italy's former prime minister, presumably Silvio Berlusconi) and a pagan celebrant, shaking cowbells and wearing a Minotaur mask. (After the song, he said he was thinking about Jake LaMotta, the boxer in Martin Scorsese's "Raging Bull.")There was desolation in many of the songs, but also a wink, a sense of delight and a broad streak of romance. Behind all the transformations was a visionary songwriter whose music stays wonderfully down to earth.HAVE all the great songs already been written? That might justify the latest outpouring of tributes and tribute albums: remakes, with and without conceptual overlay, of material that other musicians admire but aren't afraid to transform. In the age of the sample, the remix and countless YouTube parodies, entire songs and sometimes entire albums are still being recycled and reclaimed, and musicians are presenting themselves as critics, curators and — above all — fans.Among a wave of tribute albums released this season, "A Tribute to Joni Mitchell" (Nonesuch) does just about everything right. Immediately recognizable performers — Prince, Annie Lennox, Bjork, Emmylou Harris — take on Ms. Mitchell's idiosyncratic songs with a balance of humility and chutzpah; they are fans who won't reduce themselves to disciples. On tribute albums, musicians show the world the songs they care about. But with the narcissism that every artist needs, they assert that they see themselves reflected in their idols. When a tribute album works best, musicians reveal both what they learned and how they made it their own.Tribute albums have always been exercises in memory and continuity, mapping connections of sound and style. They trade on familiar songs or famous names, but what they promise is not an oldies experience (or for that matter, the experience provided by tribute bands that mimic name-brand acts). They aim for relevance, not nostalgia. And now, in the era of the isolated MP3 download and the randomly shuffled playlist, tribute albums aren't just homages to musicians. They are also tributes to the vanishing idea of the album itself: that a collection of songs can still mean something as a whole. That is the strategy behind another worthwhile tribute album, "The Sandinista! Project" (00:02:59), a song-by-song remake of the Clash's 1980 album "Sandinista!" by indie-rock and alt-country stalwarts and unknowns.The reasons for tributes are as varied as the performers, and they are rarely pure. Remaking someone else's music can be a shortcut to surefire material, ancestor-worship, a collegial embrace, an endorsement, a way to rewrite history, a generational rivalry and an attempt at one-upmanship, all in the same song.Collectively, tributes are canon-builders: musicians declaring, with respect and envy, which songs deserve another listen. And musicians will have the last word, since they're the ones who will decide, over time, what's worth learning or cribbing. But lately they've had help and second opinions. Sample-happy producers can push an old song back into the canon with a three-second snippet. And fans who aren't performers are also having their say, as music blogs, recommendation engines, shared playlists and other word-of-Web supply canon fodder of their own. (One kind of tribute album, where stars rally behind a cult favorite like Roky Erickson, Jandek, Victoria Williams or Vic Chesnutt, is disappearing as fewer geniuses remain unheard.)The interaction between songwriter, performer and audience is becoming three-sided again — almost as it was in the days before recording technology, when a song's only means of survival was to have new people learn it. With tribute albums, musicians have to admit that performers are audience members too.Tribute albums have been part of pop at least as far back as Ella Fitzgerald's celebrated songbook series, each devoted to a particular Tin Pan Alley songwriter. Thematic collections have long since been taken for granted in jazz. Rock has also been developing that kind of self-conscious hindsight. Tribute albums are often benefits for charitable causes, but a second cause also looms behind them: rock itself.Rock is gathering its own repertory movement — perhaps a sign, as with jazz and Tin Pan Alley pop, of an endangered music consolidating its best stuff as it rallies to survive. Lately, rock repertory has developed some cachet beyond the jukebox musicals on Broadway and doppelgänger tribute bands — from the affectionate and mocking songwriter revues of the Losers Lounge in New York City to events like the Bruce Springsteen tribute at Carnegie Hall in April.Across pop, interpreters are regaining ground after a mere few decades in which performers were generally expected to come up with their own material. The isolated single, not the album, drives music sales, and no one seems to mind if the producer is a song's strongest creative force. Authorship is growing less important and more tangled in a cut-and-paste culture that thrusts all digital information into a public domain, heedless of copyright.Fans project themselves into songs they love; interpreters do the same thing, louder and, presumably, more skillfully. Every interpreter has to decide what the essence of a piece of a chosen song is: the tune? the words? the hooks? the inflections? the textures? And sometimes the way to respect a song is to tear it apart, if only to show that what's left is still distinctive."A Tribute to Joni Mitchell" is what might be called a peer-to-peer collection — stars covering a star — and it has representatives from multiple pop generations. Ms. Mitchell's face on the album package appears something like the Shroud of Turin: a revered afterimage, lingering in her absence as the songs' unheard creator. Fine print in the liner notes, which are mostly lyrics, gently directs the curious toward Ms. Mitchell's original albums like a hyperlink. The album welcomes younger listeners without daunting older ones.More important, however, is that the remakes of Ms. Mitchell's songs reach deep and far, complementing one another and extrapolating from her own versions. Each homage illuminates a different thread of Ms. Mitchell's songwriting. Prince finds a torchy R&B ballad in "A Case of You," while Annie Lennox wraps the hippie decadence of "Ladies of the Canyon" in lush psychedelia.Caetano Veloso peppers "Dreamland," a song about tropical exoticism, history and globe-hopping, with rhythms from his native Brazil. Sufjan Stevens turns "Free Man in Paris," the complaints of a record-business mogul, into a suite of pop possibilities. Sarah McLachlan carries "Blue" into a cathedral of multiplied voices and sustained sounds, while Emmylou Harris treats "The Magdalene Laundries" as a plainspoken Celtic-Appalachian ballad. Until the album loses steam in its final tracks, "A Tribute to Joni Mitchell" elegantly draws the present out of the past.Beyond each track's individual thrills, a tribute album can illuminate a style and sensibility or reconsider a historical moment, as "The Sandinista! Project" does with contributions from Amy Rigby, Stew, Jon Langford and Sally Timms and dozens of others.The original "Sandinista!" filled three LPs with outsize ambitions: songs about violence, victims, revolution and drugs, delivered in a haze of punk, reggae, funk and glimmers of hip-hop. The remake, like most tribute albums, is hit or miss, but luckily it's anything but reverent. A few Clash imitations show up, but so do multidirectional time warps. Songs skew toward Appalachia with banjos, plunge into psychedelic loops and echoes, unleash theremin on "The Call Up" and the Persian wail of Haale on "One More Time." Members of the Clash wanted their songs to reverberate worldwide; "The Sandinista! Project" proclaims that they succeeded. And it not only insists that the original album hung together but goes on to take the sprawl of "Sandinista!" even further.The Joni Mitchell tribute and "The Sandinista! Project" share the tribute shelves with "Endless Highway: The Music of the Band" (SLG/429), on which jam bands slavishly emulate the Band's originals, offering only better enunciated lyrics. More tributes are on the way. A two-CD collection of John Lennon songs (with additional songs online), "Instant Karma: The Amnesty International Campaign to Save Darfur" (Warner Brothers), is due  June 12, with major names like U2, Green Day and Christina Aguilera. Aerosmith (joined by Sierra Leone's Refugee All-Stars) delivers a whooping, raucous version of "Give Peace a Chance," while underdogs like Regina Spektor and the Postal Service quietly make the Lennon songs their own. But unlike the Mitchell tribute, it's a scattershot collection and often a little too worshipful, treating Lennon, the Beatles' iconoclast, as an icon.On "We All Love Ella" (Verve), due June 5, R&B and pop singers take up Ella Fitzgerald's repertory — mostly doing their best Ella imitations backed by a big band. The cozy "Anchored in Love: A Tribute to June Carter Cash" (Dualtone), is also due June 5. With Sheryl Crow, Willie Nelson, Brad Paisley, Loretta Lynn and Elvis Costello, it's actually a tribute to multiple generations of the Carter family and their songs about love, mortality and faith. It stays fairly close to its country and mountain-music roots; there's a lot of autoharp, Ms. Cash's instrument. But the album's least-known performer, Grey DeLisle, unearths a June Carter murder ballad, "Big Yellow Peaches," and haunts it with her high, whispery voice over eerie drones.A notable full-length album tribute is due in August: Zeitkratzer's "Lou Reed: Metal Machine Music" (Asphodel), which transcribes Mr. Reed's worst-selling 1975 album — originally an opus of guitar feedback — for chamber ensemble, followed by Mr. Reed himself with a climactic solo. Played by a live group, "Metal Machine Music" sounds even wilder and more frenetic, and Zeitkratzer's act of fandom — countless work-hours involved in transcribing and orchestrating — moves "Metal Machine Music" into a context where, perhaps, it always belonged: as an avant-garde piece of bristling minimalism rather than a rock musician's bizarre experiment.Tribute albums are proud to be keepsakes and to return nearly forgotten music to circulation. They insist that an old song can stand up against a new one or eclipse it; that cultural progress is not only linear but can loop back and rediscover what was almost missed. Countless music fans now join musicians in doing the same thing, posting their most recondite collectors' items online as MP3s, encouraging links.It is easy to imagine Tribute Album 2.0, sometime around 2027, as a collaboration of musicians and nonmusicians, fans working in tandem. Someone rediscovers a songwriter, a producer or an interpreter who deserves a little more attention: barely remembered figures from the past like OutKast or Arcade Fire. Someone else, by then, will have figured out algorithms that will replicate the latest hitmakers' tone, taste and quirks. And of course there will be a program to apply one to the other for an instant, up-to-the-minute tribute.All that will be left is for yet another fan to post, knowingly and ruefully, the comment that nowadays, they just don't write songs like they used to.A few minutes into its sold-out concert at the Beacon Theater on Monday night, Steely Dan uncorked a song of recent vintage. It was "Godwhacker," from the band's 2003 album, "Everything Must Go" (Reprise), and the lyrics blithely gestured toward a tale of vengeance, pursuit and, well, deicide. When the chorus arrived, Donald Fagen and a pair of backup singers offered a cryptic admonition:Be very, very quietClock everything you seeLittle things might matter laterAt the start of the end of history.Ambiguous, portentous, slyly comic and irreverent, the tone was quintessential Steely Dan. So was the tune, with its crisp backbeat and chirpy rhythm guitar, not to mention those backup singers. But Mr. Fagen and his partner, the guitarist Walter Becker, seemed aware that their fans were tolerating "Godwhacker" more than they were enjoying it. After a quick round of solos across the band's four-piece horn section, the tune came resignedly to a close. Next was a classic, "Bad Sneakers," that elicited grateful cheers.Neither Mr. Fagen nor Mr. Becker seems characteristically prone to nostalgia. During their heyday as paragons of subversive 1970s pop, they often sounded wary about the very act of reminiscence. But a catalog is a powerful thing: last year Steely Dan authorized a career-spanning compilation, and later this year there will be another one. Perhaps it was inevitable that a good portion of the show would feel a bit like a revue.On a purely musical level, this wasn't a problem. The sleek, airtight jazz-funk of Steely Dan's prime has been modified only slightly, and it still goes down smooth. Mr. Becker kept his solos flinty and brief, occasionally yielding the guitar spotlight to the musical director of the tour, Jon Herington.Mr. Fagen, on Fender Rhodes piano, played the same tricky chords that cropped up among the horns. And Keith Carlock pulled more than his weight on drums, pumping up the propulsion of the songs. It all reflected the trademark exactitude that Steely Dan once honed strictly in the recording studio: a steady conviction that the little things do matter, and not just later but all the time.But even with such high-level musicianship, there wasn't much discovery. (The jazz trio that opened, led by the Hammond B-3 organist Sam Yahel,  sounded tougher and more inspired.) The few surprises were generally unwelcome: "Haitian Divorce," a throwaway with a lead vocal by Mr. Becker, and "Dirty Work" fell flat, despite solid efforts by the singers Cindy Mizelle and Carolyn Leonhart-Escoffery.Elsewhere there were band staples — "Babylon Sisters," "Bodhisattva,"  even "Aja" — handled with competent command. The big exception, other than "Godwhacker," was "Two Against Nature," the title track from a 2000 album that won Grammys, including Album of the Year."Everyone's wasted in this gruesome dream," Mr. Fagen sang in his plangent and oddly captivating voice. "Not a one of them left to hear you scream." As in so many Steely Dan songs, the darkness of the imagery was cloaked in the details of the music. It sounded as good as anything else in the show, but the crowd seemed eager to move on, and back.Vivid adventure novels like "The Three Musketeers" and "The Count of Monte Cristo" made the French author Alexandre Dumas père one of the best-selling writers of the 19th century.  He turned some of his books into plays, and adaptations of works like those must have been a tantalizing prospect for ambitious opera composers. Yet despite attempts to work with Bellini and Meyerbeer, Dumas neither produced nor inspired a libretto of lasting importance. (His son, Alexandre Dumas fils, far less a man of the theater, wrote "La Dame aux Camélias," the novel on which Verdi based "La Traviata.")But especially in opera, old literature has a way of casting a spell across generations and centuries. For his first opera the composer Louis Karchin chose "Romulus," an 1854 comedy by Dumas père about two scholarly bachelors whose lives are disrupted by the mysterious appearance of an infant in their home, in an English translation by Barnett Shaw. Mr. Karchin completed the work in 1990; American Opera Projects mounted its stage premiere at the Guggenheim Museum's Peter B. Lewis Theater on Sunday night.The challenge, at least initially, was in reconciling so slight and charming a story with Mr. Karchin's solidly modernist idiom. The music, scored for a small group of strings, winds, piano and percussion, was angular and chromatic. Even so, it seemed to unfurl in a ceaseless strand of gentle lyricism, filled with timbral variety and punctuated by passages of puckish humor that deftly mirrored the stage action. Mr. Karchin conducted members of the Washington Square Ensemble in a lively, polished performance.As the intense astronomer Celestus, the striking baritone Thomas Meglioranza sang in  clipped phrases. The philosopher Wolf, portrayed by Steven Ebel, a tenor, delivered more flowing lines. Katrina Thurman, a soprano,  was  perky as Martha, Celestus's sister and caretaker of both bachelors. The veteran bass Wilbur Pauley, as the mayor Babenhausen, sang imperiously, accompanied by pompous fanfares.All of these performers sang excellently, their clear enunciation a particular boon given supertitles that operated intermittently. The director, Peter Flynn, called upon their comedic gifts in action that often verged on slapstick. Glenn Reed's skeletal set offered all that was needed for this character-driven tale; Jesse Klug's subtle lighting was especially effective when Wolf confessed his passion for Martha near the conclusion. The briskly paced comedy fell a few minutes short of an hour. I would have happily stayed to hear it performed again.On Tuesday and Wednesday I heard seven young string quartets coached by two eminent ensembles play music by three composers in two different halls. Five of the seven were all female. The overall demographic was 5 men and 23 women, three of whom showed signs of imminent motherhood. I have no idea what all this means and pass it on without comment.At the Juilliard School, four groups (eight counting the concert I did not hear) were being given a whack at concert performance in Paul Recital Hall after a week of work with the Juilliard String Quartet. In Weill Recital Hall at Carnegie, three groups were being given a whack at Beethoven early and Beethoven late after a week of work with the Emerson String Quartet. I caught the first of two Juilliard events, on Tuesday afternoon, and the first of two Weill events, on Wednesday night.Happy to say, most of the coaching was done in private. Master classes tend to be a kind of theater in which the principal actors are the teachers, with students acting as  props or straight men. The concerts seemed an afterword rather than a final exam, meant partly as a demonstration of lessons learned, lessons not learned or lessons ignored. It is perhaps unwise to look at these performances all at once, given that the two events began at different places.The simplest critical method — to set a universal standard and hear who gets close to it — is democratic, but not quite fair here. Members of the three Weill ensembles appeared farther along in their careers than those of the Juilliard collection, most of whom sounded like musicians still getting to know one another and their repertory. Some of the playing was startlingly good, some promising, some less so.The Veloce Quartet on Tuesday and the Akademos Quartet on Wednesday played Beethoven's C minor Quartet from Opus 18. The Akademos, four young women from Poland, had more poise and better control of the music's jolting syncopations. The prominence given the first violinist, out of scale with the other players, took one back to the way string quartets were thought of right up until Beethoven's time: as violin solos with string accompaniment.The Veloce was often too fast and too abruptly brutal, but I found its rushing enthusiasm irresistible. This is the way young people ought to play, imperfect as it was, and I would love to hear them when they have calmed down a little bit.As poised as the Akademos, warmer and much better blended was Le Musiche Quartet on Wednesday, playing the sixth and last of the Opus 18 quartets. This mix of nationalities sounded past beginner status and well into an early career.Bartok's Third Quartet, played by the Cecilia Quartet from Canada on Tuesday, was  satisfying and well put together. A little later, the Bryant Park Quartet did well with Beethoven's "Harp" Quartet, though in a still tough, slightly stiff voice.The Lily Quartet seemed not ready for the company it kept on Tuesday. One can argue against perfectly blended sound and absolute unanimity of thought, but here the differences were extreme. An old Viennese teacher of mine liked to say that good interpretation begins with an understanding of the dotted rhythm. Through all of Mendelssohn's A minor Quartet, I did not hear one played correctly.Late Beethoven is not for the young, it is sometimes said, but what the Vinca Quartet did with Beethoven's A minor Quartet on Wednesday was stunning. The Vinca, of course, had A material to play with. The A minor achieved literary status in Aldous Huxley's now hardly read "Point Counter Point," in which one character uses the Molto Adagio to prove the existence of God. (Or was it Beethoven proving the existence of Huxley?)Like Schubert's String Quintet in C, this music does seem to operate with one foot in another world. The slow movement's Lydian scale from ancient times (think of the key of F with B natural instead of B flat) creates soft cadential landings that have barely touched ground before they float off again. The Vinca musicians are worth keeping an eye on.Nostalgia for the vanished tradition of salon concerts appears to be on the rise. Two years ago a series of piano recitals at the Rainbow Room put listeners at dinner tables with glasses of wine, and the Baryshnikov Arts Center and Lincoln Center (in its post-Mostly Mozart concerts) has been doing the same. Last year Arium, a hybrid restaurant, gallery and concert space on Little West 12th Street in the West Village, began presenting recitals for which the ticket price included a glass of wine, hors d'oeuvres before the performance and dessert afterward.The atmosphere at Arium is relaxed, but judging from Ursula Oppens's recital on Sunday afternoon the performers are asked to make no compromises. Ms. Oppens played a hefty program with music by Beethoven, Schubert and Ravel interspersed with works by Tobias Picker.Three of Mr. Picker's scores were arrangements of works for larger forces. "Where the Rivers Go," based on a section of his 1996 opera, "Emmeline," is suffused with a neo-Romanticism that evokes the opera's 19th-century New England setting. Yet stripped of its orchestral coloration, the music has a sharper, more contemporary edge. The short, involving "Old and Lost Rivers" (1986), originally a symphonic score, matches an angular, range-jumping melody to a nonstop vigorous counterpoint. And "The Blue Hula" (1982), arranged from a similarly propulsive chamber piece, draws on jazz and stride piano moves.Many currents in these three works come together in "Four Études for Ursula" (1997), Ms. Oppens's closing piece. Calling them études seems wrong; these are character pieces as vivid as the others, and they don't seem calibrated to particular technical challenges. Not that they make no demands. The first is as freewheeling and rhythmically vital as "The Blue Hula." Another sounds almost French in spirit, with an undercurrent of early Stravinsky; the last two dance between lyricism and muscularity.Ms. Oppens has been performing Mr. Picker's music since the mid-1970's, when he was just out of the conservatory, and she was the pianist in Speculum Musicae. These technically spiky, picturesque works suit her, and her imaginative use of the piano's color and dynamics made a persuasive case for them. She also offered an inventive, high-contrast performance of Beethoven's Sonata in E flat (Op. 27, No. 1), an unusually hard-driven reading of Schubert's Impromptu in B flat (D. 935) and a powerful, often poetic account of Ravel's "Valses Nobles et Sentimentales."AROUND TOWNOn the StreetNEW YORK AIR SHOW AT JONES BEACH Beach blanket bingo with a buzzing overhead? Must be the Memorial Day air show at Jones Beach. This year's main attraction:  the Thunderbirds, the United States Air Force's elite show team of F-16 fighter jets. The show — officially known as the Bethpage Federal Credit Union New York Air Show — starts tomorrow at 10 a.m. If you want to coordinate your bathing, beach walks and concession and boardwalk excursions with the show, keep in mind that the Army's Golden Knights parachute team is scheduled to come by at 10:28; the Navy Leap Frogs parachuters at 11:16 and a B-1 bomber at 11:48. At 2 p.m., the Thunderbirds fly over.The six jets, flown by some of the Air Force's top combat pilots, travel in tight formation and perform some of the most difficult civilian and military aerobatic maneuvers in aviation. They do spins and barrel rolls and tight turns used in dogfights that put tremendous gravitational force on the pilots. There will also be solo maneuvers, including one in which a jet climbs three miles straight up in a matter of seconds. Blankets and beach chairs are recommended, as are sunglasses, sunscreen and earplugs. (Tomorrow and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., Jones Beach State Park, Ocean Parkway, Wantagh, N.Y.,  jonesbeachairshow.com; free, $8 for parking.)COREY KILGANNONBROADWAY ASTORIA FESTIVAL, Broadway, from Steinway to Crescent Streets, Queens. Monday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC DANCE AFRICA STREET FESTIVAL, Ashland Place and Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene. Tomorrow and Sunday, noon to 10 p.m.; Monday, noon to 7 p.m.CHELSEA REFORM DEMOCRATIC CLUB FESTIVAL, Avenue of the Americas, between 14th and 23rd Streets, Chelsea. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.COALITION OF ITALIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATIONS FAIR, Seventh Avenue, from 47th to 57th Streets, Manhattan. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.ECUADOREAN INDEPENDENCE PROCESSION, Central Park West, from 97th to 110th Streets. Sunday, 9:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.HISTORY OF BENNETT PARK, Monday at noon, a walking tour of the site of the former summer residence of the Bennett family, publishers of the New York Herald; meeting at the flagpole, Fort Washington Avenue, between 183rd and 185th Streets. Led by James Renner, a historian. (212) 795-7830. $15; $10 for students.LOISAIDA STREET FAIR, Avenue C, between Sixth and 12th Streets, East Village. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.MADISON AVENUE COMMUNITY EXPO, from 42nd to 57th Street, Manhattan. Monday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.NEW YORK IN THE CIVIL WAR, Sunday at 1 p.m., a walking tour, meeting in front of the Seward statue, East 23rd Street and Broadway, Manhattan. Sponsored by Bowery and Canal Walking Tours. (917) 602-3543. $15; $12 for students and 65+.REVOLUTIONARY NEW YORK, Lower Manhattan. Monday at 11 a.m., walking tour of sites associated with George Washington, including Fraunces Tavern, Federal Hall and places where Washington really did sleep, meeting at the intersection of Broadway and Murray Street. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. (212) 439-1090. $15; 63+, $12; students, $10.20TH MEMORIAL DAY WEEKEND MUSIC FESTIVAL, Broadway, from 72nd to 86th Streets, Upper West Side. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., with Patience and the Cowboy Angels (at 2 and 4 p.m.) and the Branaugh O'Rourke Trio (at 1 and 3 p.m.). Also featuring crafts and food. Sponsored by the Coalition for a Livable West Side.THE CIVIL WAR AND THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION, Tomorrow and Sunday at noon, a walking tour of sites associated with the two wars with stops at Federal Hall and the grave of Alexander Hamilton, as well as the locations of the 1863 Draft Riots and a Confederate prison camp. Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331. $14.TWO BRIDGES NEIGHBORHOOD COUNCIL FESTIVAL, Third Avenue, between Sixth and 14th Streets, East Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.WASHINGTON SQUARE OUTDOOR ART EXHIBIT, on the sidewalks north, south and east of Washington Square Park, in Greenwich Village. Tomorrow through Monday, noon to 6 p.m. Also June 2 and 3, same hours.New York CityANNUAL MEMORIAL DAY CONCERT, Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights. Monday at 8 p.m., with the New York Philharmonic performing Dvorak's Carnival Overture and Brahms's Symphony No. 1, conducted by Xian Zhang. Monday night at 8. Limited free seating, first come, first served. (212) 875-5709.FLEET WEEK NYC 2007, today through Tuesday, with daily ship visitations in Manhattan at Pier 90, 50th Street and 12th Avenue (except Sunday) and Staten Island on Stapleton Pier, as well as parades, military demonstrations and displays at locations around the city. Ships depart on Wednesday. fleetweek.navy.mil.HOLIDAY CELEBRATION OF AMERICAN MUSIC, Van Cortlandt Park, near the Rangers' Ecology Center, Broadway and 246th Street, the Bronx. Sunday at 2 p.m., the Bronx Arts Ensemble will perform works by Sousa, Berlin, Duke Ellington and others; with soloists. (718) 601-7399. Free.LADY LIBERTY SWIM, Battery Park, Gangway One, to North Cove, Lower Manhattan. Sunday at 6:45 a.m., a 1.5-kilometer swim for those 15 and older. Check-in, 6:15 a.m. Sponsored by the Battery Park City Parks Conservancy. Viewing information: (212) 267-9700; swim registration: (888) 692-7946, nycswim.org.MEMORIAL DAY COMMEMORATION, Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument, Riverside Park at 89th Street, Upper West Side. Monday at 10:30 a.m., with speeches, wreath placements and the Walk of Remembrance to Grant's Tomb at 122nd Street, where there will be Civil War re-enactors.NINTH ANNUAL GREEN-WOOD CEMETERY MEMORIAL DAY CONCERT, Monday at 2 p.m., with the Band of Long Island, the Fanfare Trumpets from the United States Merchant Marine Academy and the singer Erin Brooks, at the Victorian Archway, 25th Street at Fifth Avenue, Brooklyn. (718) 768-7300. Free.SORRENTO CHEESE SUMMER IN LITTLE ITALY FESTIVAL, Tomorrow at 3 p.m., an oyster-shucking competition at Mott and Hester Streets, Manhattan. Monday at 4 p.m., a concert by Joe Piscopo and his orchestra, Mulberry Street, between Canal and Hester Streets. Presented by the Little Italy Merchants Association. Sponsored by Sorrento Cheese and other businesses. (212) 302-0551; littleitalynyconline.org. Free.31ST ANNUAL AMERICAN CRAFTS FESTIVAL, plazas of Lincoln Center. Tomorrow, noon to 9 p.m. and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Also June 2 and 3, same hours. Sponsored by the American Concern for Art and Craftsmanship.12TH LOWER EAST SIDE FESTIVAL OF THE ARTS, Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village. Tonight, 6 p.m. to 1 a.m.; tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 1 a.m.; and Sunday, 6 p.m. to 1 a.m. A three-day indoor and outdoor festival with drama, dance, music, poetry and puppets. Participants include F. Murray Abraham, David Amram, the Rod Rogers Dance Company, the Living Theater, the Thunderbird American Indian Dancers and the Silver Cloud Singers and Drummers. (212) 254-1109; theaterforthenewcity.net. Free.WHO OWNS BROOKLYN? FROM FARMS TO BROWNSTONES, Brooklyn Historical Society, 128 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn Heights. Thursday at 6 p.m., a panel discussion on development, gentrification and preservation in the borough, sponsored by the society as well as the Weeksville Heritage Center and the New-York Historical Society. (718) 756-5250; weeksvillesociety.org. Free.Upstate New YorkANIMALS AND ACROBATS, Van Cortlandt Manor, South Riverside Avenue off Route 9, Croton-on-Hudson. A celebration with acrobats, puppet shows music, storytelling and a magic show. Tomorrow through Monday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. (914) 271-8981; hudsonvalley.org. $12; 62+, $10; 5 to 17, $6; under 5 and members, free.'THE DINING ROOM,' Irvington Town Hall, 85 Main Street, Irvington. The  A. R. Gurney play, presented by the Little Village Playhouse Theater Workshop. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. (914) 591-6602; irvingtontheater.com. $12 and $15.GREAT AMERICAN OLD TYME CIRCUS, Museum Village, 1010 Route 17M, Monroe. With jugglers, clowns, aerialists and others. Tonight at 7:30, tomorrow and Sunday at 2 and 4:30 p.m. (845) 782-8248; museumvillage.org. $10 in advance, $12 on the day.'INTO THE WOODS' Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street, Tarrytown. The musical by James Lapine and Stephen Sondheim, presented by the Lighthouse Youth Theater. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 1 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m. (Through June 3.) (877) 840-0457. $18 to $55.'OVERLOOKED HERO: JOHN GLOVER AND THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION,' St. Paul's Church National Historic Site, 897 South Columbus Avenue, Mount Vernon. An exhibition of historical documents and prints. Today, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Also a flag ceremony at 3 p.m. (914) 667-4116.PLAYLAND AMUSEMENT PARK, Exit 19 of Interstate 95, Rye. Today, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.; tomorrow and Sunday, noon to midnight; Monday, noon to 10 p.m. (914) 813-7000 or 813-7010; ryeplayland.org. Rides, 2 to 4 points (kiddie rides, 2 points). $20 for 24 points; $30 for 38 points; 1 to 19 single points, $1 each. Eight-hour fun band, $40.WOODSTOCK-NEW PALTZ ART & CRAFTS FAIR, Ulster County Fairgrounds, off Libertyville Road, New Paltz. With hundreds of artisans, as well as food and entertainment. Tomorrow and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Monday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. (845) 679-8087 or (845) 246-3414; quailhollow.com. $8; $7 for 62+; $4.50 for 6 to 16.New JerseyBLUES AND WINE FESTIVAL, Four Sisters Winery, 783 County Route 519, Belvidere. Tomorrow and Sunday, noon to 5 p.m., with music, food, wine-tasting and children's activities. (609) 588-0085; newjerseywines.com. $20; free for those under 21.CAPE MAY CONVENTION HALL, Beach Drive at Stockton Place. Tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., "Crafts at Memorial Day"; $1; free for those under 12. Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. "Antiques at Memorial Day." (609) 884-5404 or (800) 275-4278; $3.50; free for those under 12. capemaymac.org.EAST ORANGE MEMORIAL DAY PARADE, Monday beginning at 10 a.m. at Central and South Arlington Avenues. (973) 414-4141.MAPLEWOOD MEMORIAL DAY PARADE, Monday beginning at 9 a.m. at the Columbia High School student parking lot on West Parker Avenue.NJN HISPANIC YOUTH SHOWCASE, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark. Tonight at 7. (888) 466-5722; njpac.org. $13.LAFAYETTE VILLAGE, Routes 15 and 94. Tomorrow and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., Spring Antiques and Sidewalk Sale Days. Also, tomorrow and Sunday, same hours, an Heirloom Tomato Plant Sale at Village Hall, same location. (973) 383-8323.ON THE WATERFRONT: WEEHAWKEN TO HOBOKEN, Sunday at 7:15 p.m., a three- to four-mile walk along the Hudson River, meeting at the Port Authority Bus Terminal, New Jersey Transit ticket window, near the commuter's statue. Sponsored by the Outdoors Club. (347) 886-3070. $3.POWHATAN RENAPE NATION AMERICAN INDIAN ARTS FESTIVAL, Rancocas Road, Westhampton. Tomorrow through Monday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. With music, dance and food. (609) 261-4747. $10; $5 for 6 to 12; free for those under 6.TOUR OF SOMERVILLE CYCLING SERIES, Monday, the culmination of four days of competitive cycling for professionals and amateurs, with races ranging from 15 to 50 miles. Also, a sports and music festival from noon to 3 p.m. in front of 40 North Bridge Street; children's activities from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the intersection of Grove and High Streets; and live bands from noon to 3:45 p.m. at Veterans Memorial Plaza. (908) 725-7223, Ext. 13.Connecticut'BRIGHTON BEACH MEMOIRS,' TheaterWorks, 5 Brookside Avenue, New Milford. Neil Simon's play, directed by Glenn R. Couture. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. (860) 350-6863; theatreworks.us. $20.LITCHFIELD MEMORIAL DAY PARADE. Monday at 10 a.m., beginning at Prospect and North Streets.LOBSTER DAYS, Mystic Seaport, 75 Greenmanville Avenue, Exit 90, off Interstate 95, Mystic. Tomorrow and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Monday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Sponsored by the Rotary Club of Mystic; proceeds benefit local charities. (888) 973-2767; mysticseaport.org. Entertainment and lobster dinners, $20 and $35. Museum admission also required: $17.50; $15.50, 65+; $12 for ages 6 to 17; free for ages 5 and under.'NIGHTINGALE,' Hartford Stage, 50 Church Street, Hartford. Written and performed by Lynn Redgrave, directed by Joseph Hardy. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m. (through July 1.) (860) 527-5151; hartfordstage.org. $22 to $42.WESTPORT CRAFT SHOW, Staples High School, 70 North Avenue. Tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. $8; $6 for 62+; free for under 12. (203)  227-7844.Long IslandBAY SHORE MEMORIAL DAY PARADE, Monday beginning at 10 a.m. at Lanier Lane and Main Street.GARDEN CITYMEMORIAL DAY PARADE, Monday beginning at 10 a.m. at 10th Street and Franklin Avenue, with a ceremony at the Garden City Middle School, Cherry Valley and Stewart Avenues. (516) 739-3565.  Also Monday, noon to 4 p.m., a fair with music and food at the Cathedral of the Incarnation, 50 Cathedral Avenue. (516) 746-2955.'OSCAR AND FELIX,' Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109, East Farmingdale. An updated version of Neil Simon's "The Odd Couple." Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Through June 10. (516) 293-0674. $18 and $22.PORT WASHINGTON MEMORIAL DAY PARADE, Monday at 10 a.m., beginning on Campus Drive and ending with a ceremony at Sousa Band Shell.SOUTHAMPTON MEMORIAL DAY ART SHOW, Southampton Cultural Center, 2 Pond Lane. Today through Monday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Through June 3. (631) 298-1078.'THE FULL MONTY,' CM Performing Arts Center, 931 Montauk Highway, Oakdale. The musical by Terrence McNally and David Yazbek. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 7 p.m. Through June 3. (631) 218-2810; theatermania.com. $20; $16 for students.'TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE,' Studio Theater, 141 South Wellwood Avenue, Lindenhurst. The play by Mitch Albom and Jeffrey Hatcher, based on Mr. Albom's book, is produced by the BroadHollow Theater Company. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 2 p.m. (631) 581-2700; theatermania.com. $22.UNBEKNOWN to many, Serge Gainsbourg, the seminal French singer and style icon, had sensitive feet. Boots hurt him. He hated walking. His only salvation was calfskin jazz shoes made by Repetto, the French dance shoe company. Jane Birkin, then his lover, turned him on to the supple shoes in the early '70s. "Serge was looking for gloves for his feet," she told Les Inrockuptibles, the French music magazine. Originally designed by Rose Repetto for her daughter-in-law, the ballet dancer Zizi Jeanmaire, the lace-up shoes served Gainsbourg well. According to Repetto lore, he went through 30 pairs a year — always in white — until his death in 1991.Since then, the jazz shoe has remained a favorite among the intelligently offbeat. "They have a very cool simplicity to them," said Humberto Leon, an owner of Opening Ceremony in Manhattan. The shop's shoe collection, introduced this spring, includes suede, canvas and leather styles for men and women. For those who fancy a little wit in their wardrobe, it also sells jazz shoes with removable spats from b Store in London.Some of the shoe's current appeal might be credited to another Gainsbourg: Serge's daughter, Charlotte, whose androgynous chic has made her a muse for many a fashion house. As Robert Clergerie, whose unisex Popée shoe comes in an array of pastels and eye-popping metallics, explained the attraction, "It gives manhood to women." Well, you get the idea.For the gallerist Mirabelle Marden, who owns several pairs of jazz shoes from Dolce Vita and Repetto, including glittery silver ones that look like ambulant disco balls, the shoes simply give her happy feet. "I love them because they're light and easy and I can break into a little dance if I want to," she said. "And I tend to want to."
