There is a great tendency to romanticize earlier eras of classical music in New York. But it's important to remember that when the New School Concerts began in 1957 there was not the abundance of chamber music series that New Yorkers can choose from today. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, for example, did not come along until 1969.So back then, when Eva H. Simons, an avid amateur musician and the wife of the president of the New School, asked the eminent violinist and conductor Alexander Schneider to organize a series of affordable concerts at the school's intimate 517-seat Tishman Auditorium, there was a real need for such offerings.Mr. Schneider, best known as a member of the Budapest String Quartet, threw himself into the project and never accepted a penny for his work. At the inaugural concert he conducted Handel's 12 Concerti Grossi (Op. 6), with a chamber orchestra of top-notch New York players. Tickets cost $1, a price that was maintained until 1967.Two years later Frank Salomon, a young man fresh out of the Army,  hoping to get into the administrative side of classical music, approached the New School and offered to promote the series. It took some time to convince Ms. Simons that she needed a promoter, but  Mr. Salomon was eventually hired, for $1 an hour, to work no more than 20 hours a week. He wound up working 60 hours a week for that $20,  he recalled the other day.This soon led to a job at the Marlboro festival in Vermont (he has been its co-administrator for more than 40 years), and eventually a successful business in New York as an  artist manager. Mr. Salomon, 71, is still at it. He gave the introductory speech at a concert Sunday afternoon  commemorating the 50th anniversary of the series, which was renamed the Schneider Concerts after the violinist's death in 1993.The program offered the pianist Peter Serkin and the Orion String Quartet in works by Beethoven, Peter Lieberson and Brahms. Mr. Serkin's participation was especially appropriate. In 1959, during Mr. Salomon's first year with the series, Mr. Serkin, then 12, made his New York debut performing a Haydn concerto with  Mr. Schneider conducting a chamber orchestra. Over the years the series gave early exposure to Murray Perahia, Yo-Yo Ma and other artists, and presented 20 premieres by Luciano Berio, Lukas Foss, Ralph Shapey, Stefan Wolpe and other major composers.In 1969 Mr. Salomon and Mr. Schneider also created the New York String Orchestra Seminar, a Christmastime training program for young professional musicians that presents two annual Carnegie Hall concerts, another educational project for which the maestro  refused payment.Prices for the Schneider Concerts have remained affordable. Tickets cost $15, and just $5 for students. It was heartening to see  many elderly people in the audience on Sunday afternoon, music lovers who clearly appreciate the reasonable price and the early afternoon concert time. It was hard not to wonder where the young people were, though. Students in New York like to complain that the high cost of high culture keeps them away. They could have attended this exciting concert for half the price of a movie in New York.Beethoven's playful and ingeniously inventive String Quartet in B flat (Op. 18, No. 6), proved an inviting opening work, especially in the smart, honest and vibrant performance by the Orion String Quartet. Since no program notes were provided, it's too bad than none of the musicians spoke to the audience about Mr. Lieberson's two-movement Piano Quintet, composed in 2001.It is helpful to know in advance, for example, that the first movement builds on a rigorous four-note theme and, in the spirit of Messiaen, spins off into myriad moods and directions, by turns ecstatic, wondrous and dangerous. And the exhilarating second movement includes hints of Cape Breton fiddle music, a remnant of the time when the composer lived in Nova Scotia. Mr. Serkin and the Orion players gave an incisive and gripping performance of this fitful, boldly modern score, bringing impressive clarity to the entangled counterpoint in the fugue.The Brahms quintet received a searching, moody and remarkable performance by Mr. Serkin and the Orion players. Do not be fooled by Mr. Serkin's professorial manner and three-piece suits. A wild man lurks within this keenly intelligent musician. In many ways he is still the musical rebel he was in his Tashi days.He seemed to be the main instigator in this daring and freshly conceived performance of the Brahms. Whole episodes were eerily self-contained and intimate. There was nothing smooth or homogenous about the playing of the Andante movement, which conveyed all the shifting urgency of the music. At other times, like the Scherzo, the performance was vehement and percussive, at once exhilarating and terrifying.Given  that this series attracts  many older people, it was understandable that quite a few  listeners in the hall had hearing aids. During a pause between the first two movements of the Brahms, two of these devices, it seemed, started emitting high-pitched tones. Listening intently, Mr. Serkin played high pitches on the piano to match the electronic tones, which provoked good-natured laughter in the audience.But the wearers of the hearing aids got the message. Quiet was restored, and the musicians  began the second movement. The audience was raptly attentive for the rest of the Brahms performance, which drove through the stormy coda of the last movement with breathless energy and power, provoking a prolonged ovation after the searing final flourish.Afterward, there was free wine  and cheese and a chance to mingle with the artists at a reception,     another tradition of the venerable Schneider Concerts. Plans for the next season will soon be announced."It's great to be here," the soprano Dawn Upshaw said on Sunday afternoon at the beginning of her recital at Town Hall. "I mean, really great," she added, looking misty-eyed, to which the audience responded with a long round of applause and cheers.Many people in the hall knew the deeper meaning of Ms. Upshaw's comment. In the fall she was told she had early-stage breast cancer, forcing her to miss many months of work. This recital, with her good friend and longtime partner, the pianist Gilbert Kalish, was only her second, and her first in New York, since coming back  from "treatments," as she put it. She looked vibrant and hardy. Her voice sounded warm, full and lovely. If anything, there seemed to be an even richer dimension to Ms. Upshaw's deeply communicative artistry.She also said she was honored to be opening this spring's Free for All at Town Hall series, now in its fifth season. She noted, beaming with pleasure, that earlier in the day Mr. Kalish had become a grandfather for the fourth time: his daughter, Judith,  had given birth to a boy.This recital surely had an additional resonance for Mr. Kalish. Ms. Upshaw was a devoted student of the mezzo-soprano Jan DeGaetani, with whom Mr. Kalish enjoyed an important 30-year partnership until Ms. DeGaetani's death in 1989 — from cancer.Ms. Upshaw explained that when she and Mr. Kalish planned this recital, they did not know how she would be feeling, so they decided upon a selection of favorite songs, interspersed with a couple of solo piano pieces. Ms. Upshaw cautioned the audience not to "look for meaning" in this "hodgepodge." Actually, the meaning came from hearing music that mattered so much to the performers.Their tender account of Stephen Collins Foster's "Beautiful Child of Song" set the warm and personal tone for this late afternoon of music. Ruth Crawford Seeger's "White Moon," with its pungent piano harmonies and wayward vocal line, was followed by Charles Ives's wistfully lyrical "Two little flowers (and dedicated to them)," a tribute to his daughter and her young friend.A group of French songs by Fauré, Debussy and Ravel culminated with two astounding songs from Messiaen's "Poèmes pour Mi." In the ecstatically frenzied second song ("Fulfilled Prayer"), Ms. Upshaw sang with wild-eyed, almost frightening exuberance, as Mr. Kalish deftly dispatched the outbursts of astringent cluster chords.Mr. Kalish's ruminative interpretation of Brahms's pensive Intermezzo in B minor (Op. 119, No. 1) set the tone for songs by Schumann, Wolf, Berg and Weill. The program ended with  sly and captivating performances in three of the clever and stylistically eclectic "Cabaret Songs" by the composer William Bolcom and the lyricist Arnold Weinstein.An especially  affecting moment of the recital came early on, when Mr. Kalish played "The Alcotts" movement from Ives's monumental "Concord" Piano Sonata:  amazing music, at once contemplative and restless, inspired by thoughts of home, hearth, culture and transcendence. Seated nearby, Ms. Upshaw simply listened, completely absorbed. She seemed to be thinking again, "It's great to be here."POPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.  AIR (Thursday) This French duo, whose every electronic note seems to drip with breathy, limply funky pop nostalgia, plays as part of David Bowie's High Line Festival. At 8 p.m., Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com or highlinefestival.com; $36 and $46. (Ben Sisario)★ KAREN AKERS (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday) The songs in "Simply Styne," Ms. Akers's beautiful tribute to the composer Jule Styne, have been arranged into a touching, tongue-in-cheek cabaret answer to "Scenes From a Marriage." The pianist Don Rebic is her witty partner in deconstruction. (Through May 12.) At 9, with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 11:30, Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331, algonquinhotel.com; $60 cover; $65 dinner charge at 9; $25 minimum at 11:30. (Stephen Holden)ANTIBALAS (Tomorrow) This Brooklyn collective worships the musky Afro-funk of Fela Kuti, and can produce a credible facsimile of it, thickly textured with reverb-heavy guitars and brawny horns. Its latest, "Security" (Anti-), also follows Fela's other big legacy: no-holds-barred denunciations of political oppression and corruption. At 9 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800;  $20. (Sisario) * ARCADE FIRE, THE NATIONAL (Monday through Wednesday) Arcade Fire became king of the indie-rock mountain with a lovable, artsy eccentricity  and a disarming emotional clarity. Its new album, "Neon Bible" (Merge), is dark and preoccupied but satisfyingly cathartic. The National, from Brooklyn, plays flawless, wilting ballads threaded with subtly brilliant guitar playing by Bryce Dessner and the dry, cynical baritone of Matt Berninger. Monday and Tuesday at 7 p.m., United Palace Theater, 4140 Broadway, at 175th Street, Washington Heights, (212) 307-7171, bowerypresents.com; Wednesday at 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com or highlinefestival.com; sold out. (Sisario)THE BAMBOOZLE (Tomorrow and Sunday) The Web site for this lollapalooza in the Giants Stadium parking lot has a faux radio station, complete with obnoxious promo spots crackling with pyrotechnic sound effects. It's unfortunately appropriate for the Bamboozle, a roll call of more than 100 young hard-rock bands that, once you get past the headliners, sound utterly interchangeable and predictable — the kind that make you want to change the station. My Chemical Romance and Muse headline tomorrow, and Linkin Park on Sunday. A few highlights are Brand New, Taking Back Sunday, Killswitch Engage, Weird Al Yankovic, Captured by Robots, Lordi, Andrew W. K., and Rob Base and DJ E-Z Rock ("It Takes Two"). At noon, Meadowlands Sports Complex, Routes 3 and 120, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, thebamboozle.com; $35 each day.(Sisario)★ BEIRUT, FINAL FANTASY (Sunday through Tuesday) A year ago Zach Condon, a 19-year-old from Albuquerque who records as Beirut, released "Gulag Orkestar" (Ba Da Bing), an album of somber, sepia-toned marches with touches of Balkan brass. He quickly became a celebrity among music bloggers, which means that by now Beirut has become a kind of blog classic rock. As Final Fantasy, Owen Pallett creates nervous universes in miniature, looping ribbons of violin around his quavering voice. At 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)★ BJORK (Tomorrow and Tuesday) It's been a long time since Bjork's combination of wailing indie-rock, eroticized electronica and use of random musical props — Inuit choirs, beatboxers, African kora players — has been truly avant-garde, or even surprising. But her latest album, "Volta" (Elektra), still sounds fresh and energized, with every sound becoming her exotic plaything. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., with Konono No. 1, a Congolese band whose polyrhythmic bubblings are made with amplified thumb pianos, at the United Palace Theater, 4140 Broadway, at 175th Street, Washington Heights, (212) 307-7171;  Tuesday at 8 p.m., Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 307-7171, apollotheater.com; both sold out.  Konono No. 1 also plays tomorrow night at the Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $23. The doors open at 8, and Magik Markers opens. (Sisario)★ BLONDE REDHEAD (Tuesday) Its days of spindly, atonal guitar webs apparently behind it, Blonde Redhead has for the last few years been making lusher, more cottony music, as if finally realizing that its amplifiers have reverb buttons. Its latest, "23" (4AD), is a gorgeous trip through clouds of overdriven guitar and heavenly vocals, recalling those kings of overdriven guitar and heavenly vocals, My Bloody Valentine. With Fields. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Sisario)BOWLING FOR SOUP (Wednesday) When the venerable British singer and guitarist Richard Thompson put together his album "1,000 Years of Popular Music," his choices included "Sumer Is Icumen In," Renaissance ballads and Cole Porter's "Night and Day," as well as "1985," a gag catalog of '80s nostalgia by this otherwise undistinguished Texas rock band. ("When did Motley Crue become classic rock?/And when did Ozzy become an actor?") It's a fun karaoke number, though Mr. Thompson may have been making another point: if you were really going to preserve the most representative songs of our culture, you'd have to include some "1985s," right? At 8 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800;  $17.50 in advance, $20 at the door.(Sisario)BRIGHTBLACK MORNING LIGHT (Tomorrow and Sunday) Though nominally part of the current psych-folk revival, Brightblack Morning Light has a sound that is harder to place, and therefore more intriguing: an electric hum; warbling keyboards that evoke damp funk; and ecstatic, breathy chants, like the rituals of a secret forest cult. The songs on its most recent album were written, the band has said, while living in tents in Northern California. Also on the bill: Daniel A.I.U. Belteshazzar-Higgs with Chiara Giovando. Tomorrow at 10 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; Sunday at 9 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $13 in advance; $15 at the door. (Sisario)JIM CAMPILONGO, MIKE VIOLA (Monday) Just another night at the Living Room, a plain Lower East Side cabaret that puts on one guitar-cradling singer-songwriter after another, some of them world-class. Mr. Campilongo is a well-traveled guitar whiz who plays with Norah Jones in her country band, the Little Willies; his Electric Trio has had a Monday-night residency forever. Mr. Viola, jumping from piano to guitar, sings strident power-pop with some jagged wit. Also on the bill are Kelly Jones and Phillip La Rue. At 8 p.m., 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, (212) 533-7235, livingroomny.com; no cover. (Sisario)CORNELIUS (Thursday) Keigo Oyamada, a Japanese musician who records as Cornelius (he took his name after Roddy McDowall's character in "Planet of the Apes"), is a witty if cold conceptualist, toying with minimal electronics and off-kilter rhythms that sound like the stimuli of some psychological lab experiment. At 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $25. (Sisario)BEN GIBBARD (Tuesday) The singer of Death Cab for Cutie, the indie-rock giants whose spectrum of mood runs from lovelorn and aloof to wistful and aloof, is on a rare solo tour. With David Bazan and Johnathan Rice. At 7:30 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824, the-townhall-nyc.org or bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Sisario)KIKI AND HERB (Sunday) A few years ago this brilliantly perverse cabaret duo played their farewell show at Carnegie Hall. Then came a run on Broadway. And some late-night gigs at Joe's Pub. And the inimitable Christmas show. (Highlight: a medley of "Smells Like Teen Spirit" and "Frosty the Snowman.") Kiki and Herb can't stay away from the stage, and New York is the better for it. At 11:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Sisario)* TED LEO AND THE PHARMACISTS (Tomorrow) As stalwart as you can be in indie rock, Mr. Leo has made a long and admirable career matching the musical fury of Clash-like punk with impassioned, highly personal social commentary. His new album, "Life Among the Living" (Touch and Go), is a reminder that he is one of the best and most uncompromising songwriters in the game. With Love of Diagrams. At 6:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $19. (Sisario)MAGIC NUMBERS (Wednesday) Perfectly jangly bubblegum harmonies of mid-'60s vintage get a slight melancholy twist with this British foursome, made up of brother-and-sister pairs. With All Smiles. At 7 p.m., Hiro Ballroom, 371 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $25. (Sisario)★ MARTIRIO (Tuesday and Wednesday) This Spanish singer, long a curious mingler of pop, jazz and flamenco, recorded her new album, "Primavera en Nueva York" (Calle 54), in New York with a jazz band, its boleros reinterpreted as a languorous, savory jazz suite. She makes her New York debut at Joe's Pub. At 7 and 9:30 p.m., 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $30. (Sisario)MOE (Tonight through Sunday) One chord is all Moe needs to start one of its nimble, quick-fingered jams. Its music starts with the Grateful Dead-Allman Brothers hybrids that most jam bands use, and from there it takes off toward Southern rock, spacey interludes or the borderline of funk. At 9, Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; sold out. (Jon Pareles)NEKROMANTIX (Sunday) Is it Halloween already? This Copenhagen trio follows the "Munsters"-as-punk lead of the Misfits and the Cramps with a full sideshow of warped rockabilly, B movie titles (new album: "Life Is a Grave & I Dig It!") and, most important, ghoulish stacked hairdos. With Heart Attacks, Westbound Train and Orange. At 8 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171; $12.50. (Sisario)JENNIFER O'CONNOR (Wednesday) Ms. O'Connor's portraits of the lovelorn and depressed, sung over light strums of guitar and with the guileless vulnerability of a 2 a.m. phone confession, are dry but not unsympathetic: "Maybe she's on her lunch break thinking of you." She has a Wednesday residency this month at the Living Room. At 11 p.m., 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235, livingroomny.com; $8. (Sisario)★ JOHN PIZZARELLI AND JESSICA MOLASKEY (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday) These married musicians have been called the "Nick and Nora of cabaret," a sobriquet that only begins to describe their upbeat sophistication. They fuse two distantly related musical worlds into a larger whole in which Stephen Sondheim, Dave Frishberg, Paul Simon, and Lambert, Hendricks & Ross join hands. (Through May 26.) At 8:45, with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 10:45, Café Carlyle, at the Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com; $75 and $125 Tuesday through Thursday; $85 tonight and tomorrow. (Holden)DULCE PONTES (Thursday) This Portuguese singer's champions (or at least her publicists) call her the successor to the fado queen Amália Rodrigues. Not quite: Ms. Pontes's style has leaned pretty far toward the soapy and homogenized glitz you can hear every year at the Eurovision festival. (Ms. Pontes was a competitor in 1991.) But she has a strong, fleshy alto, and for this Carnegie Hall appearance will sing traditional songs from her lovely new album, "O Coração Tem Três Portas,"  with a small acoustic ensemble. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $23 to $72. (Sisario)ANNIE ROSS (Tuesday) When this jazz legend barks out "I Got Rhythm," she turns this great Gershwin standard into a hipster's credo. If you've got as much rhythm in your body and music in your head as Ms. Ross does at 76,  who indeed could ask for anything more? At 7 p.m., Metropolitan Room, 34 West 22nd Street, Flatiron district, (212) 206-0440, metropolitanroom.com; $25 cover, two-drink minimum. (Holden) * SHIVKUMAR SHARMA AND ZAKIR HUSSAIN (Tomorrow) Shivkumar Sharma plays the santur, India's hammered dulcimer, and has transformed it from an accompanying instrument into a solo instrument that brings shimmering resonances to the classical Indian raga repertory. He will be accompanied by Zakir Hussain on tabla, who can supply subtle propulsion and percussive fireworks over the course of a raga. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 545-7536, the-townhall-nyc.org or worldmusicinstitute.org; $25 to $45; $15 for students. (Pareles)SIX PARTS SEVEN (Tonight) The Six Parts Seven, from Kent, Ohio, play instrumental rock that unfolds with deliberation and inexorable grace, working through minimalistic guitar-picking patterns and gradual buildups that quickly become mesmerizing. With Trouble Books, Ghosts of Pasha and Yellow Fever. At 8, Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; $8. (Pareles)SLOAN (Thursday) Like modern metafictions, Sloan's pop-rock songs twist inward on themselves. With their winsome tunes and neo-Beatles intricacies, Sloan's songs are not just about unrequited yearnings, but also about the process of writing pop songs about unrequited yearnings. They're rarely so clever that their heart doesn't come through. With Small Sins. At 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $20. (Pareles)SUNSET RUBDOWN (Tonight) A solo enterprise of the prolific Spencer Krug, who sings and plays keyboards in the Montreal indie-arty band Wolf Parade, Sunset Rubdown is one of those weirdly fascinating bedroom noise projects characterized by stompy lo-fi backing tracks and evocative stream-of-consciousness lyrics ("Shut up, I am dreaming of places where lovers have wings"). With Katie Eastburn and Get Him Eat Him. At 8:30, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)★ AMY WINEHOUSE (Tuesday and Wednesday) The British R&B revivalist of the moment, Ms. Winehouse growls defiant epigrams of debauchery ("They tried to make me go to rehab/I said no, no, no") over tasty arrangements that, were it not for the whiff of hip-hop in the rhythms, could pass for lost 1960s soul tracks. With Patrick Wolf on Tuesday. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; sold out. Mr. Wolf also plays on Wednesday at 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Sisario)NE-YOBecause of You (Def Jam)Pity the R&B star Ne-Yo. All he really wants to do is write a few hits (he helped compose Beyoncé's "Irreplaceable"), croon a few slow jams (his breakthrough single was "So Sick," a winsome ode to a loser), sell a few million albums (he's getting there). But it's never that easy. Mere months after he recorded his heavy-breathed treatise on the importance of bedroom mirrors, a shocking rumor started circulating: it was whispered that the young singer suffered  —  not unhappily, perhaps  —  from sex addiction.No one can know for sure who started this rumor. (Surely the culprit couldn't possibly be a guy known as Ne-Yo.) No matter: on his second album, "Because of You," this crooner steps up to correct the record. In "Addicted," he sighs about the wages of fame, announces he has "gotta get some stuff off my chest," then  —  accompanied by a pleasantly cheap-sounding fake horn section  —  works his way up to the grand declaration: "No. I. Am. Not. I'm not addicted to sex." Good to know. One warning, though: "Girl, I guarantee/That if you lay with me/You just might be."Ne-Yo has found an enthusiastic audience among the young female listeners who watch BET's "106 and Park" and buy tickets for the teenager-friendly "Scream" tour. The new album will keep them happy, but it's clearly an attempt to win over their parents: Ne-Yo is drawn to lush arrangements and woo-woo-woo ad libs; he's devoted to the venerable genre known as baby-making music.The title track (and lead single), propelled by a steady kick-drum, seems designed to accompany couples twirling across a dance floor, or a roller rink; "Can We Chill" mines similar territory, while giving Ne-Yo yet another chance to demonstrate his love for Michael Jackson. He's got a silky voice and a clear knack for chronicling obsessive love and lust; maybe one day he'll create a half-crazed R&B masterpiece. ("Leaving Tonight," a perfectly pulpy duet with Jennifer Hudson, hints at this possibility.) But in the meantime, "Because of You" is a likable little album: 12 girl-crazy songs from a boy who can stop anytime he wants. Honest. KELEFA SANNEHTORI AMOSAmerican Doll Posse (Epic)Tori Amos recently announced that her new album was "an opportunity to reclaim the segmented pieces of the female psyche"  — and, she added, to "reunite them." Is that all? To this end, Ms. Amos has created five personae  —  Isabel, Clyde, Pip, Santa and, confusingly, Tori  —  to sing the 23 songs on "American Doll Posse." Before you ask: yes, each persona does maintain a personal Web site.By this point in her extraordinary career, 15 years removed from her blockbuster solo debut, "Little Earthquakes," Ms. Amos has weeded out most of the casual listeners from her fan base; the tourists are gone and the Torists remain. But "American Doll Posse" isn't quite the fans-only project it might first seem to be. Although the album's conceit might seem heavy-handed, Ms. Amos treats the whole thing like a game: this is her most entertaining album in years, precisely because she keeps switching among characters and styles.Not that everything works. The first song, "Yo George," is a shopworn political lament. (She murmurs, "Where have we gone wrong America?/Mr. Lincoln we can't seem/to find you anywhere.") But it's over in little more than a minute (one upside to cramming 23 tracks onto a CD), replaced by a jagged and mischievous Southern-rock song, "Big Wheel." This album is full of pleasant surprises: the R.E.M. flourish that opens "Secret Spell"; the sleek bass line in "Bouncing Off Clouds"; the 90-second orchestral daydream that is "Programmable Soda." A message to lapsed Tori Amos fans: come back. You won't be bored. KELEFA SANNEHANGELIQUE KIDJODjin Djin(Razor & Tie/Starbucks Entertainment)The second half of "Djin Djin,"  by Angelique Kidjo, finds this Beninese singer in characteristically good form. Backed by a choice selection of musicians, including her countrymen Crespin Kpitiki and Benoit Avihoue on percussion, she handily reinforces her stature as an upbeat heroine of contemporary Afro-pop.But it's the album's first half that grabs the attention, with a parade of guest stars, a social agenda and decidedly mixed results. While Peter Gabriel sounds comfortable on a song called "Salala," Joss Stone struggles with a peppy take on "Gimme Shelter" by the Rolling Stones. Ziggy Marley brings a reggae lilt; Alicia Keys and the saxophonist Branford Marsalis import a whiff of R&B. Predictably, it's "Senamou," featuring the Malian duo Amadou and Mariam, that stands out as the best of the bunch.The worst, perhaps also predictably, is a summit with Josh Groban on vocals and Carlos Santana on guitar, performing "Pearls," Sade's vintage lament for a suffering Somali woman. "She lives a life she didn't choose," Mr. Groban cries, harmonizing with Ms. Kidjo, "and it hurts like brand new shoes." (That materialistic metaphor was always a bit inappropriate; in this context it also feels spectacularly awkward.)Ms. Kidjo, a goodwill ambassador for Unicef, has unassailable credentials in the field of global poverty awareness. And she has long been a committed hybridist, with a vision of the African musical diaspora that includes  gospel, soul and jazz. But "Djin Djin," with production by Tony Visconti, nudges her too far in the direction of voguish pop compassion. The gloss and guests may yield something more appealing to a mass market  — or maybe a coffeehouse clientele  — but they don't make for a better album. NATE CHINENTHE FRED HERSCH TRIONight & the Music (Palmetto)There's a pristine quality to the pianism of Fred Hersch that can give the false impression of conservatism. On "Night & the Music," Mr. Hersch undercuts that feeling in subtle ways: a tremulous two-handed run here, a quietly mounting tension there. He sounds unfailingly articulate, on songbook standards as well as on several original tunes, and at times it all seems a bit too relaxed, if not exactly easy.Beneath the surface, Mr. Hersch addresses a network of complexities, especially in his perpetual conversation with the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer Nasheet Waits. That process is much easier to scout out on some of these tracks (Irving Berlin's "Change Partners") than others (Cole Porter's "So in Love"). What runs through everything is the clarity of attention among the musicians, along with their shared respect for melody.One especially engaging song, an original by Mr. Hersch called "Gravity's Pull," derives much of its strength from the gently halting propulsion of Mr. Waits. The next track, by Mr. Gress, represents the album's most abstract elaboration, though its elasticity pertains strictly to rhythm. On "Rhythm Spirit," another original, Mr. Hersch ventures some passing tonalities that could even qualify as avant-garde.Those distinctions are beside the point here. "Night & the Music" conveys a spirit of adventure even in some of the more sumptuous ballad work. The fruitful middle ground might best be represented by a pair of compositions by Thelonious Monk, long a touchstone for Mr. Hersch. They are "Boo Boo's Birthday" and "Misterioso," and each develops intelligently but gradually, with the stealthiest of subversions. NATE CHINENLOS ANGELES, May 1 (AP) — Zola Taylor, the first woman to be a member of the 1950s R&B group the Platters and who was later one of three women claiming to be the widow of the pop idol Frankie Lymon, died on April 30 in Riverside, Calif. She was 69.The cause was complications of pneumonia, said her nephew, Alfie Robinson. She had suffered several strokes in the past.Herb Reed, a founding member of the Platters, said he spotted Ms. Taylor, the sister of Cornell Gunter of the Coasters, rehearsing with an all-female group in 1955.The Platters, then all men, had just signed with the Mercury label after its single "Only You" topped the charts, and its manager thought they needed a woman's voice to soften their sound. "She had this baby voice that everyone liked," Mr. Reed said.Mr. Reed said that Ms. Taylor, a contralto, turned out to be a great fit, charming audiences with both her smile and her vocal harmony. The group's next hit, "The Great Pretender," raced to the No. 1 spot on both R&B and pop music charts. Their success also inspired many other African-American groups to add female singers.The popularity of the Platters began to fizzle after 1959, when four members were arrested in a Cincinnati hotel and accused of using drugs and soliciting prostitutes. Ms. Taylor was back in the spotlight in 1968, when she and two other women who claimed to be Mr. Lymon's widow became embroiled in a bitter legal battle for his royalties. Mr. Lymon, a teen pop sensation in the 1950s with hits like "Why Do Fools Fall in Love?," had died of a drug overdose in 1968 at age 25.Ms. Taylor's nephew said she told him that the two wed in Mexico while she was touring with the Platters and forgot to file papers in San Diego. The court found in favor of one of the other women. The drama was a focus of the 1998 Lymon biopic "Why Do Fools Fall in Love." Halle Berry played Ms. Taylor.Mr. Robinson, who was Ms. Taylor's closest known living relative, said his aunt continued touring with other lesser-known acts until 1996 and married two other times. Her last husband died in 1982, he said. She had no children.DIA BORROWS SPACEAt Hispanic SocietyAs the Dia Art Foundation continues to look for a home in New York City, it has entered into a three-year collaboration with the Hispanic Society of America. Beginning this fall Dia will commission a series of projects by contemporary artists to be installed in the society's Beaux-Arts home  at Audubon Terrace on Broadway at 155th Street in Washington Heights."This is an interim program only," said Jeffrey Weiss, Dia's new director. "It complements our search for a new space." (In 2004 Dia moved out of its two gallery spaces on West 22nd Street in Chelsea, saying neither was suited for its growing number of visitors.)In developing a series of programs, Lynne Cooke, Dia's curator, said she planned to work with artists who would take into account the society's holdings of Spanish and Latin American art. The first project will be conceived by the Belgian artist Francis Alÿs, who lives and works in Mexico City. Mr. Alÿs is known for site-specific projects like "Where Faith Can Move Mountains," a 2002 installation created for the third Ibero-American Biennale that involved 500 volunteers who were given shovels and asked to form a single line at the foot of a giant sand dune in Ventanilla, an area outside Lima, Peru. Together they moved a 1,600-foot-long sand dune about four inches from its original position. "Modern Procession," a three-hour march with scattered rose petals, bubbles and music by a Peruvian band, Banda de Santa Cecilia,  marked the Museum of Modern Art's temporary move to Long Island City, Queens, in 2002.Like most Dia exhibitions this will be a long-term show, on view for about a year.Mitchell A. Codding, executive director of the Hispanic Society, said the timing of the collaboration is especially fortuitous. "Most of the works in our north building are in a traveling show," he said. "For us this is a win-win situation. It will bring visitors we would not normally see to the Hispanic Society. And Dia's audience is great about traveling."Last year the society announced plans to move downtown where it might attract more visitors. But yesterday Mr. Codding said it abandoned the idea because the society could not come up with any site. "Instead we're focusing on renovating our facilities here," he said.THE SEASON OF DURANDAsher B. Durand, the 19th-century American landscape painter who was a founder of the Hudson River School, rose to a new kind of celebrity two years ago when the New York Public Library sold "Kindred Spirits," his 1849 canvas depicting the painter Thomas Cole and the poet William Cullen Bryant standing on a rocky ledge in the Catskills, to Alice L. Walton, the Wal-Mart heiress, for a staggering $35 million. She has since lent the painting to a Durand exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum, where it is on view through July 29 before it travels to Washington and San Diego.Whenever a work like "Kindred Spirits" sells for a big price, it is generally only a matter of time before other works by the same artist begin appearing at auction. It is not surprising then that on May 24 Christie's will test the Durand market when it auctions "Pastoral Landscape," painted from 1854 to 1861. Cameron Knight, a Washington psychiatric social worker who collects American paintings, bought "Pastoral Landscape" about 12 years ago. It had belonged to the Spalding Memorial Library in Athens, Pa., since around 1900."Periodically you have to realize when it's time to sell and when it's time to buy," said Mr. Knight, who is also selling a painting by William Michael Harnett and another by William Merritt Chase in the same sale. "I'm continually trading up."The Durand, a bucolic, sun-dappled landscape with cows grazing in the field, is estimated at $500,000 to $700,000. It belonged to Edward Henry Perkins Jr., president of the Importers' and Traders' National Bank and his half-brother William Perkins, also a New York banker. In 1899 the Perkins family gave a large portion of their art collection, including this painting, to the Spalding Library.That such an important painting by Durand has never been exhibited has been troubling to Mr. Knight, who is researching the Perkins family. In trying to figure out how the painting found its way into the Perkins collections, he said, he theorized that a relative of the Perkins brothers may have been an engraver who worked with Durand, who began his career as an engraver."The big mystery here is: How could such a major work have disappeared so long ago?" Mr. Knight said. "For someone who was one of the fathers of American painting, the fact that this has never been shown in any exhibitions is curious. It was donated so long ago, it was off the historians' radar. The only explanation is that these were very close friends and associates of the artist."BOOST FOR ART FAIRSMerchandise Mart Properties, the Chicago property management company and trade-show producer, is getting into the art business. This week it announced that it had joined forces with the Armory Show, now in its 10th year, and Voltashow, the three-year-old fair for cutting-edge art conceived as a spinoff of Art Basel and Art Basel Miami Beach.The Armory Show, which began as an informal event conceived by four New York art dealers — Matthew Marks, Paul Morris, Pat Hearn and Colin de Land — to exhibit lower-priced works started out in a series of hotel rooms in Gramercy Park. Since then it has grown to about 150 dealers  from fewer than 30. It has also moved several times and now takes place every February, most recently at Pier 94.Merchandise Mart can provide both shows with a well-oiled infrastructure, Mr. Marks said, because of its ability and expertise in handling backroom operations."It's a very competitive business, and this fair now needs a big operation behind it," he said. "What began as a hobby has turned into something much larger. It's a natural next step."Chris Kennedy, president of Merchandise Mart Properties, which also manages places including the Architects & Designers Building on East 58th Street between Lexington and Third Avenues, explained the connection: "The people who shop in the D&D building also buy art."Michael Freeman came all the way from the University of Alabama to spend six chilly early-morning hours yesterday sitting on the sidewalk along 38th Street in Manhattan. Scott Johnston just came from Long Island, but he got to the sidewalk three hours earlier than Mr. Freeman. One a.m.: first in line.The producers of "Spring Awakening," the rock-musical portrait of teenage discontent playing on Broadway, were looking for future replacements for their young cast (future being the crucial word, the casting notice said; nobody in the current cast is going anywhere soon).They put out an open call for performers between the ages of 16 and 21 in all the usual places, adding the show's sites on MySpace and Facebook. Have a "folk/alternative rock song" prepared, the notice read. A Beatles songbook was on hand if necessary.At 10 o'clock yesterday morning the seekers had come, more than 1,000 of them, with their sheet music, saccharine smiles and terror-filled eyes, stretching down 38th Street, turning the corner onto Ninth Avenue, then turning the corner again onto 39th Street. Whether there were new Wendlas and Melchiors in that huge crowd remains to be seen, but the event did make pretty nice publicity for a show that has at times struggled to fill its theater and is being promoted for a Tony Award. The auditions began upstairs in the New Dance Group studios.Line up against the wall, have your head shots and résumés handy. O.K., here's the drill.The first room was the one of heartbreak. It's where people were accepted or rejected on sight; the rejects didn't even get to sing. They walked in and stood in a line, looking inexperienced, confident, flirtatious, petrified or some combination thereof.Stephen Kopel, who works for Jim Carnahan, the show's casting director, flipped through head shots and glanced at résumés: an endless stream of former von Trapp children, a Fantine or two, a Little Sally from "Urinetown," a Tybalt, an Emily Webb, a great many portrayals of this particular character named Ensemble. These bona fides did not matter so much; Mr. Kopel was mainly there to cut out the ancient 22- and 23-year-olds who thought they could squeeze in."Brittany, how old are you?" Mr. Kopel asked a young woman clutching her sheet music to her chest."I'm actually, well, I'm 15, but I'm a freshman," she said."You in school, Lauren?" Mr. Kopel asked.Pigtails fooled no one.When Mr. Kopel finished eyeballing a group, which usually took a minute at most, he handed the résumés in two stacks to another casting person. In the hall that person held out a few head shots: "You guys — sorry, too old."The rest filed upstairs.Audition Room B. Carrie Gardner, a casting agent who works for Mr. Carnahan, sat at a table as one young woman came in after another, a numbered sticker slapped on her clothes. The women smiled, handed the sheet music to a piano player, stepped to the blue line and announced their selections.No. 82: "Fiona Apple's 'Criminal.' "No. 84: " 'Over the Rainbow' by way of Eva Cassidy."No. 87: " 'Call Me When You're Sober' by Evanescence."Thanks, that was great."If we are interested in seeing you further, you will be contacted," read a short information sheet being handed out. "Please DO NOT contact us."And so, having waited and waited and waited and sung, they walked, a little dazed, back out to 38th Street.Mr. Freeman, 22, did not have such luck. Sorry, too old, the woman said. After a $230 plane ticket, six hours on the sidewalk and one minute in front of a casting agent: sorry, too old."I guess it's the price you pay," Mr. Freeman said, and shrugged.
