The huge sign behind the Nokia Theater stage displayed the name of the radio station  —  98.7 KISS-FM  —  and also its slogan: "The Best Variety of Old School and Today's R&B." The occasion was the Kiss Holiday Concert on Friday night, and the star was a doubly appropriate singer.Angie Stone is both an old-school pioneer and a current R&B hit maker, as she explained midway through her witty and unpredictable set. "I've been doing this, y'all, since 1979," she said, reminiscing about her time with the first-wave hip-hop trio the Sequence. Nowadays she's a champion of "classic soul music," signed to the revived Stax Records. To hear her tell it, she went through hip-hop and came out the other side. "I ain't hating on hip-hop, because that's the humble beginnings," she said. "But we grow up."At the Nokia, Ms. Stone's voice sounded warm but surprisingly soft; she often shied away from the high notes, and for power she relied on a pair of backup singers. No matter: people already knew the words. Besides, she evidently enjoys having a nimble band to rely on. Judging from Friday night's show, she also enjoys having a keyboardist who will, after much goading and teasing, improvise new lyrics to "Buy U a Drank (Shawty Snappin')," by T-Pain.Two months ago Ms. Stone released her fourth solo album, "The Art of Love & War," which has  spawned a minor hit, "Baby,"  a gentle but firm reprimand to an old lover who has moved on. It has a mellow beat,  a smooth refrain and an entertaining, wildly overstuffed music video. Major plot points: a vicious mugging, a newspaper headline about a "movie starlet" (played, perhaps wishfully, by an "America's Next Top Model" winner) and a shocking surveillance tape.The crowd was full of decidedly (in some cases exceedingly) post-teenage couples on dates, and Ms. Stone knows her way around make-out music. When a band member crooned a suggestive question  —  "Can I touch you in all the right places, baby?"  —  the response came swiftly. "Now, wait a minute," said Ms. Stone, as she came tottering over, feigning not irritation but, on the contrary, impatience. "I'm gon' show you how much the woman is in control," she said. And she conducted the band with a series of twitches, slowly coaxing the music along, note by note.Audience members weren't exempt from Ms. Stone's cajoling. During a singalong version of "No More Rain (in This Cloud)," from her impressive 1999 solo debut album, "Black Diamond," she stopped for a friendly correction. For years she had noticed fans singing, "There's no more rain in this house"; now she wanted everyone to get it right.Still, nothing beat "Brotha," an old fan favorite that gives Ms. Stone a chance to testify on one of her favorite subjects. As the band started playing, she decried "the male-bashing and the female-bashing on the radio," reminded everyone that "the Bible says the man is the head of the household," advised financially successful women to avoid causing "dissension" at home and  —  most important  —   issued a directive: "Will all the kings rise up, please?"By which she meant: every man in the building. (Addressing a couple near the front, she clarified: white men too.) As the women cheered, she shouted, "King!" and  instructed the men to shout back, "I am!" When the response was less than thunderous, she asked, "What was that?"But eventually the men got it right, and perhaps some of them savored this marvelously paradoxical scene: one in-control woman, commanding hundreds of men to stand up for themselves.Radio stations must miss the days when they were the primary gatekeepers for pop stardom. MTV sandbagged them in the 1980s, and then along came the Internet.Yet musicians still depend on radio play for mass sales, which is why they dutifully perform at promotional concerts like the Z100 Jingle Ball on Friday night at Madison Square Garden, organized by WHTZ (100.3 FM). The Jonas Brothers, Fall Out Boy, Alicia Keys, Avril Lavigne, the Backstreet Boys, Jordin Sparks, Colbie Caillat, Timbaland, One Republic and Boys Like Girls performed for thousands of screaming teenagers and preteenagers.Half of those performers got their momentum outside radio. The Jonas Brothers — who drew by far the loudest screeches  — found their nationwide audience on the Disney Channel. Fall Out Boy worked its way up the punk club circuit and cultivated fans on its Web site. Ms. Sparks was an "American Idol" winner. And Ms. Caillat, who was allotted a one-song acoustic performance of her lilting soft-rock hit, "Bubbly," drew millions of plays on MySpace.While the marketing is different, the task for most of the bands was the one radio has always rewarded: orchestrating the joys and sorrows of young love. The concert was split between rock and R&B, but as far as Z100 is concerned (and the Disney Channel too), bubble gum is back. Peppy, punchy songs about breaking up or falling in love were greeted by squeals and singalongs. Sentimental midtempo anthems —  with singers instructing the audience to raise lighted cellphones — also went over well.The Jonas Brothers are pinup cute, smiley, nasal-voiced siblings from New Jersey; Kevin, the oldest, turned 20 last month. He, Joe and Nick Jonas have been widely, and rightly, compared to the 1990s phenomenon Hanson, another brother act that gave its pop songs a fillip of electronics and hints of country-rock twang. Also like Hanson, the Jonas Brothers have a few clever songs amid the sappy ones. "S.O.S." is up-to-date enough to complain, "This is where the story ends, a conversation on I.M./Well, I'm done with texting." As a band of older musicians backed up the songs, the brothers grinned and bounded around the stage, harvesting camera flashes and shrieks.Backstreet Boys may have been thinking grim thoughts about declining boy-band standards. With four members from their '90s heyday as a quintet, they harmonized carefully and hit their marks for every choreographed beat of their uptempo songs: discipline, not just preening. Lately, though, Backstreet Boys have been concentrating on bombastic, lachrymose power ballads, which could be mourning both lost romance and fading teenage appeal.Fall Out Boy's punk-pop songs are catchy, verbally convoluted tales of disastrous romances and self-consciousness. They're pitched at a slightly older audience than the kiddie crowd at the Jingle Ball, as was the profanity-slinging patter of Pete Wentz, the band's bassist and lyricist. While parents may have winced, their daughters cheered.Avril Lavigne was touted back in 2002 as a rebel-rocking teenager who was far more authentic than her contemporary Britney Spears. Now she has gotten over her serious-artist phase. This year she followed through on the punk-pop of her 2002 hit "Sk8er Boi" with nearly an entire  album of similar-sounding songs.Onstage she was no punk, even with an occasional four-letter word in a lyric. She had a nonstop smile and a troupe of dancers; her newer punk-pop songs, bright and shallow, made her oldies like "Complicated" sound like subtle character studies. Still, she had fewer clichés per line than the male punk-pop band that opened the concert, Boys Like Girls.Ms. Sparks, who turns 18 on Saturday, sings pop-R&B in a high voice with a shrill edge. She has an overload of mannerisms from early Mariah Carey. But she (and her advisers) chose songs smartly for her debut album; one she performed, "No Air," staggers its vocal behind the song's beat to hint at choking. Timbaland, one of the genius producers of current R&B but not much of a rapper, filibustered through a short set, finally introducing the earnestly simpering band One Republic. He'd have been better off working on something new in a studio somewhere.Alicia Keys was the concert's musical highlight. Her songs were about women's strengths and needs, and her accomplished, soulful music moved through funk, gospel, rock, Afro-Caribbean music and R&B. Her voice transformed itself for each song. But she was in the wrong place; singing about being a superwoman or facing mortality, she was distant from teenage concerns. Still, she was savvy enough to finish her set with the hefty oom-pah of her single "No One," with lyrics simple enough for junior high: "No one can get in the way of what I feel for you."LAS VEGAS (AP) — Sweet Louie Smith, who was half of the R&B duo the Checkmates, died on Saturday aboard a cruise ship in the Caribbean on which he and his partner, Sonny Charles, were performing. Mr. Smith was 68 and lived in Las Vegas, where the two were a long-running music act.Mr. Charles confirmed the death.Marvin Smith, known as Sweet Louie, and Mr. Charles were friends since childhood in Fort Wayne, Ind. They served in the Army together in the 1950s, touring in the entertainment division of the Army Special Services, after which they set their sights on Las Vegas.The act took off in 1964  when the Checkmates started performing at the Pussycat à Go-Go, on the site of what is now the Wynn Las Vegas Resort. The group went on to perform at the Sands and Caesars Palace.The duo's best-known recordings include "Love Is All I Have to Give" and a remake of "Proud Mary." Their most successful single, a Top 10 hit, was "Black Pearl," a 1969 recording produced by Phil Spector.Some of their career highlights included performing with Frank Sinatra at the Oakland Coliseum, a concert at Madison Square Garden with Herb Alpert, and singing the national anthem for the "Thrilla in Manila," the Muhammad Ali-Joe Frazier heavyweight championship boxing match in the Philippines in 1975.The Checkmates were inducted into the Las Vegas Hall of Fame in 2000.Mr. Smith is survived by his wife, Linda.The promise of Crescent Boogaloo, a small coterie of all-stars  at the Jazz Standard, announces itself up front. There's a lot of room for overlap between the more groove-oriented music of New Orleans (a k a the Crescent City) and the New York-based, 1960s-vintage Latin-soul hybrid known as boogaloo (or bugalú). Put those two styles in contact, with the right ambassadors, and you might have something special.But the group's first set on Tuesday night harbored no traces of boogaloo, and the lone funk jam, halfway through, felt Northeastern in origin. For that matter, the two musicians onstage with roots in New Orleans, the alto saxophonist Donald Harrison and the trumpeter Nicholas Payton, often came across like guests at a party.The host of that party — Dr. Lonnie Smith, a Hammond B-3 organist who appeared some 40 years ago on "Alligator Boogaloo," a soul-jazz album by the alto saxophonist Lou Donaldson — didn't seem terribly concerned by these matters. Regardless of what was listed on the club calendar, he was going to do his thing.Time for some good news then: Dr. Smith is a bold and charismatic stylist, and here he was working with the guitarist Peter Bernstein, an experienced partner, and the drummer Bill Stewart, a quick study with open ears (and a lot of history with Mr. Bernstein). Together as a rhythm section they pushed ahead with purpose and grace.The set opener was "Good Bait," a Tadd Dameron tune, and Dr. Smith set the gauge at a medium-easy tempo, the standard gait of mid-Atlantic organ-trio protocol. It was a casual, companionable sound, which partly explained the level of chatter in the room.Mr. Payton and Mr. Harrison had no problems on this turf or on Sonny Rollins's "Oleo," another bebop standard that crisply closed the set. Their more interesting statements, though, involved a modal waltz by Frank Foster called "Simone." Mr. Payton explored the theme with measured phrases, exhausting one idea before adopting the next; his solo gave the impression of searching a house, room by room. Mr. Harrison took a more headlong approach, with hard gusts and fast flurries, occasionally zipping through an exotic scale.Both soloists contributed solid work to the set's funk centerpiece, a vamp with a bridge, loosely based on "Come Together," the Lennon-McCartney song. But Dr. Smith didn't give them much to work with in terms of melody, opting to indulge in some playful vocalization. Eventually both Mr. Payton and Mr. Harrison filed awkwardly off the stage.Later on, introducing the band, Dr. Smith botched Mr. Harrison's name. It was an honest mistake, quickly rectified, but it felt offhandedly appropriate. One hopes that Crescent Boogaloo, whatever the misleading handle, finds more collaborative footing this week.LUPE FIASCO"The Cool" (Atlantic)Somber string sections and minor keys signal the unabashed seriousness of Lupe Fiasco's second album, "The Cool." Wasalu Muhammad Jaco, who calls himself Lupe Fiasco, is concerned about everything from the state of hip-hop to impending apocalypse in songs that envision a widening spiral of poverty, selfishness and disregard for consequences. Like "Lupe Fiasco's Food & Liquor," his first album, "The Cool" moves from the personal and the local to the all-encompassing. But this time around Lupe Fiasco and his producers — mostly Soundtrakk — have clarified the lyrics and brought out the hooks. The result is a three-act allegory that's also one of the year's best hip-hop albums.First, Lupe Fiasco ponders his own developing success. "The Coolest" — following through on "The Cool" from "Food & Liquor" — has tolling piano chords and an elegiac choir backing him as he tries to sort through the temptations of fame and wealth. In "Go Go Gadget Flow" chugging, minor-key strings give him an undertow of misgivings even as he boasts at top speed. And "Superstar," with the vocalist Matthew Santos sounding like Bono, wonders "if you are what you say you are."The songs only grow more urgent as Lupe Fiasco expands his sociopolitical perspective. "Intruder Alert" starts as a wary love song and broadens its topic to immigration. "Little Weapon," produced by Patrick Stump of Fall Out Boy, looks at children with guns, from child soldiers in Africa to high school shooters. "Hello/Goodbye (Uncool),"  produced by the British team Unkle, is a panorama of self-deception and self-destruction that builds to a full-scale psychedelic freakout.Then, with all that devastation in mind, the album circles back to hip-hop. Over a ring-tone-ready synthesized track, Lupe Fiasco mockingly raps about advice he's gotten to "Dumb It Down" and write about cars, money and girls. But he looks at the game far more bleakly: "All your enemies want to shoot you down," he warns over guitar power chords in "The Die," and over the crackling, ghostly track of "Fighters" Mr. Santos croons, "No one will save you."Lupe Fiasco could easily dumb it down. Instead he earns every bit of his self-righteousness. JON PARELESJAHEIM"The Making of a Man(Atlantic)Jaheim is an R&B singer with a rapper's image, and his lyrical persona is a thug with a sensitivity-training diploma. Almost every line on "The Making of a Man," his fourth album, sounds like it's sung with a clock ticking. He's got to start a new life, and he has no time to waste. He wants to convince one woman or another that he's turned good, that he doesn't just think about himself anymore. Thus, from "I've Changed":Pull out the fine-wine glasses, dinner in bedWent and took some culinary classesGotta stay sexy for you, baby, tightened up my body,Workin' on my ghetto pilates.But he's always got his fingers crossed behind his back. It's a record about that moment — turning 30, maybe — when you take half-stock of your life, when you think on old mistakes, reckon what can or should be changed and calculate how much treachery you can still allow yourself.That conceit, and Jaheim's husky, feathery, Teddy Pendergrass-ish voice, keep "The Making of a Man" afloat through stretches of fairly routine songwriting and production. This kind of bath-salts R&B comes with longstanding tradition attached; this record's got its obligatory percussion chimes, endless ballad tempos, smooth backup vocals and other romantic musical clichés.But it's got good ideas too. Jaheim updates Bobby Womack's complicated old song "If You Think You're Lonely Now" on "Lonely"; there are rudimentary horn arrangements here and there, in knowingly rough echoes of Philadelphia soul. And Jaheim writes verses spilling over with dilemma, delivering tough thoughts in silky rhythmic bursts.BEN RATLIFFBIRDMAN"5 ★ Stunna" (Cash Money/Universal)Talk about a bait and switch. First Lil Wayne said he was releasing a new album at the end of this year. Then he said it would be a compilation, full of the best tracks from his dazzling run of mix tapes. But apparently the plans changed again; instead of a new Lil Wayne CD we get "5 ★ Stunna," a new album from his mentor and spiritual "daddy," Birdman, previously known as Baby.Birdman, an ostentatious proprietor of the New Orleans label Cash Money Records, has been a hip-hop star since the late 1990s. His musical handicap is considerable: He "can't rap," as he once put it. But he made enjoyable albums anyway, aided and abetted by the pioneering producer Mannie Fresh. They released five avuncular CDs together as Big Tymers, and they worked together on a pair of Birdman solo albums. Then came an unhappy split, and now Birdman is relying more than ever on Lil Wayne; last year they released a likable collaborative album, "Like Father, Like Son."For the sake of Lil Wayne fans, let's be specific. He contributes precisely three and a half verses and six refrains to this album, and he single-handedly saves "Believe Dat" by finding innumerable funny ways to say those two words. And a track called "100 Million" succeeds thanks to some ringers: Cool & Dre (who are responsible for the heraldic beat), Young Jeezy and Rick Ross, along with Lil Wayne.Generally, though, Mannie Fresh's absence hurts nearly as much as Birdman's presence. (To get a sense of Birdman's rhyme style, read this couplet out loud: "Find me in another town, doing it like it's my town/Five-star g, homey, anywhere I lay my crown.") And as the album goes on, its profound not-goodness gets harder to ignore. More than a few tracks follow a simple recipe for disaster: Birdman, a microphone and no help in sight. KELEFA SANNEHSTEVE LEHMAN"On Meaning" (Pi)Intellectual seriousness has apparently never been a scarce commodity for the alto saxophonist Steve Lehman. A former Fulbright scholar and current Columbia University doctoral candidate in music composition, Mr. Lehman comes to his art with an abundance of academic context. It's no accident that the title of his new album suggests a treatise, though on some level it was probably a mistake."On Meaning," after all, sustains a bracing physicality throughout its cyclical succession of tracks. Mr. Lehman, leading a ferocious young quintet, shows no sign of philosophical quandary or ponderous intent. The layered complexity of his music attests to some careful calibration, but the playing reflects something else: a spirit of lunging abandon constrained by collective purpose.The album's chief relationship is between Mr. Lehman and Tyshawn Sorey, an impulsive yet exacting drummer; together they make up two-thirds of Fieldwork, a separate group that has made a science of rhythmic convolution. (Fieldwork is playing Tuesday at the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street in the East Village.) Mr. Lehman and Mr. Sorey apply some of the same hypnotic concepts here, but the results feel warmer and roomier, thanks in part to the steadfast effort of the vibraphonist Chris Dingman and the bassist Drew Gress.Mr. Dingman and the trumpeter Jonathan Finlayson deliver the strongest flashes of improvisation, summoning faint echoes of the more adventurous postbop albums of the 1960s. Mr. Lehman, who clearly descends from that line — in his development he was mentored by Jackie McLean as well as Anthony Braxton — solos a bit more warily. As the resident architect he keeps one eye trained on a larger design. But that doesn't mean he treads lightly here, or lets his ideas push him around. NATE CHINEN Mel Cheren, an innovative record executive who helped start the Paradise Garage, a cavernous focal point of the downtown Manhattan gay disco scene in the 1970s and '80s, died on Dec. 7 in Manhattan. He was 74.The cause was pneumonia as a complication of AIDS, said Sherri Eisenpress, the executor of his estate.As the AIDS epidemic began to ravage his nightclub's clientele, Mr. Cheren gave the Gay Men's Health Crisis, the prominent AIDS service group, its first home, donating space for it in a building he owned in Chelsea.It was Mr. Cheren's financial backing that helped his business partner and former lover, Michael Brody, create the Paradise Garage in 1977 out of what was once a parking garage at 84 King Street in SoHo. In its heyday, patrons crowded the club's 25,000-square-foot floor as they danced under the commanding sway of the inventive disc jockey Larry Levan and the club's powerful sound system.The Paradise Garage was "the epicenter of D.J. culture in the '80s," an article in Newsday said in 2002, describing it as a place where Madonna and Diana Ross would mingle with artists like Keith Haring and gussied-up unknowns. In a 2006 documentary about Mr. Cheren, "The Godfather of Disco," he called the Garage "the ultimate expression of the whole fabric" of gay night life in an era of extravagant parties, casual sex and recreational drug use.With his record label, West End, Mr. Cheren helped create the 12-inch vinyl single, which gained its greatest popularity in discos. The disc permitted longer playing time than the standard seven-inch record and was said to provide a cleaner sound. And while working for another label, Scepter Records, before founding West End, Mr. Cheren came up with the idea of instrumental B-sides for dance singles.In the 1980s Mr. Cheren had to deal with a backlash against disco music, even though West End had some of its biggest hits after the disco craze had peaked. He eventually gave up his interest in the company to his partner, Ed Kushins. The Paradise Garage closed in 1987.A more serious problem was AIDS, which was infecting many men close to Mr. Cheren. In 1980, as he was converting part of his Chelsea building into apartments, he offered space to the Gay Men's Health Crisis, then a young organization in need of headquarters."No one would rent to them," Mr. Cheren said in an interview with The New York Times in 1994.After the organization moved to other quarters in 1984, Mr. Cheren turned the building into the Colonial House Inn, a 20-room gay-oriented guesthouse. He continued to live there.In the late 1980s Mr. Cheren founded 24 Hours for Life, a nonprofit group that raised money from the music industry for AIDS relief. That organization also published his autobiography, "My Life and the Paradise Garage: Keep On Dancin'."Mr. Brody died of AIDS in 1987. Mr. Levan, the disc jockey, died in 1992. Mr. Cheren left no immediate survivors.Melvin Cheren was born on Jan. 21, 1933, in Everett, Mass., and grew up in the Boston area. He got his first job in the record business in 1959, as a salesman for ABC-Paramount Records. He also began painting, preferring to use his fingers instead of a brush. Several of his canvases were reproduced on the covers of jazz albums, including Sonny Rollins's "East Broadway Run Down."In the 1960s Mr. Cheren was drafted into the Army and served in Germany. On his return, in 1970, he went to work for Scepter and urged the company to release a new sort of dance music he had been hearing. He became a "disco pest," he told The Times in 2000.Mr. Cheren and Mr. Kushins started West End Music Industries in 1976. The company's first release was "Sessomatto," a disco instrumental by Sesso Matto. West End went on to release disco hits like Karen Young's "Hot Shot," Taana Gardner's "Work That Body" and "Heartbeat," Bettye LaVette's "Doin' the Best That I Can" and the NYC Peech Boys' "Don't Make Me Wait."Mr. Cheren liked to mix play and work, taking what he picked up at dance clubs in New York City and on Fire Island as inspiration for his records and paintings. At age 69, he said, "I still own the dance floor."Mikhail Baryshnikov, who defied gravity as a ballet dancer, is gravity's slave in "Beckett Shorts," which opened on Tuesday night at the New York Theater Workshop.  Mr. Baryshnikov enters  falling in the opening segment of this 70-minute compilation of four brief plays by Samuel Beckett. And for the rest of the show you can feel good old physics tugging at feet that once took flight like no one else's.This grounding of a winged dancer poignantly captures the harsh laws of Beckett's universe, where Mother Earth never stops pulling people toward the grave. Mr. Baryshnikov's elfin-prince face is eloquent in its mix of weariness, resignation and a hopeful glimmer of tenacity. But he's got more than physics working against him in this production, directed by JoAnne Akalaitis, a founder of the experimental theater troupe Mabou Mines and the former artistic director of the Public Theater.As if to prove the fallacy of imitative form, the show itself feels earthbound in ways that do no one, including Beckett, any favors. Visually and aurally stylish (the hypnotic original music is by that hypnotic master Philip Glass), "Beckett Shorts" offers a lovely frame for a study in human frustration that only occasionally comes to life.The two opening scenes are the most successfully realized, as well as the most naturally suited to Mr. Baryshnikov: "Act Without Words I," a solo piece conceived in 1956 for the dancer Deryk Mendel, and the two-character "Act Without Words II," which Mr. Baryshnikov performs with the inventive young choreographer David Neumann.In the first work a Tantalus-like figure reaches for an elusive pitcher of water that dangles from the heavens; in the second  two men of notably different metabolisms perform the empty rituals of daily life. (Mr. Neumann is charming as the go-getter.) Mr. Baryshnikov brings an engagingly matter-of-fact, understated presence to both, which makes metaphor feel like reality. But while this is an essential aspect of playing Beckett, you long for some of the comic energy that the brilliant mime Bill Irwin brought to Beckett's "Texts for Nothing" at the Classic Stage Company in 2000.Mr. Baryshnikov speaks, credibly enough, in "Rough for Theater I," in which he plays a blind beggar violinist to Bill Camp's  vagabond in a wheelchair. He returns to silence in "Eh Joe" (a 1965 work that Beckett wrote for television), in which he portrays a man in a bedroom haunted by an accusatory voice (a part spoken by Karen Kandel).The production as a whole suggests that Ms. Akalaitis has concentrated less on the performers than on what surrounds them. Alexander Brodsky's haunting desertscape (lighted by the excellent Jennifer Tipton), walled by modernist panels and scrims, has been accessorized by ingenious gizmos that arrive from the skies and the wings to tease and prod the live actors. Video projections by Mirit Tal echo the images onstage.That the human factor seems secondary may be part of the point, but it makes for a dry evening of theater. Mr. Camp, a wonderful actor, lends his part a Shakespearean grandeur that feels out of place. And it was a serious mistake to give the voice in "Eh Joe" a physical existence. It turns a self-lacerating inner monologue into a specific, external character, and you perversely wonder less about Joe than about this woman who keeps ranting in a spotlight stage left.I might have responded more positively to Ms. Akalaitis's "Eh Joe" if I hadn't seen Atom Egoyan's interpretation last year  in a searing production in London, starring Michael Gambon. That version too used video projections to magnify Joe's reactions to what he was hearing but to far more resonant effect.In "Beckett Shorts" it is Mr. Glass's icy, repetitive music that comes closest to piercing the heart. Ms. Akalaitis has created an exquisitely Beckettian environment. But she has mostly failed to populate it with fully fleshed people, which means that Beckett's struggling humanity stands even less of a chance than usual of winning.BECKETT SHORTSBy Samuel Beckett; directed by JoAnne Akalaitis; music by Philip Glass; sets by Alexander Brodsky; costumes by Kaye Voyce; lighting by Jennifer Tipton; sound by Darron L. West; video by Mirit Tal. Presented by the New York Theater Workshop, James C. Nicola, artistic director, and Lynn Moffat, managing director. At the New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village; (212) 239-6200. Through Jan. 20. Running time: 1 hour 15 minutes. 'ACT WITHOUT WORDS I'WITH: Mikhail Baryshnikov (Man). 'ACT WITHOUT WORDS II'WITH: Mr. Baryshnikov (A) and David Neumann (B). 'ROUGH FOR THEATER I'WITH: Mr. Baryshnikov (A) and Bill Camp (B).'EH JOE'WITH: Mr. Baryshnikov (Joe) and Karen Kandel (Woman).POPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.ALESSANDRA BELLONI (Friday through Sunday) A singer and percussionist who approaches Italian folk music with a  scholarly curiosity, Ms. Belloni has long investigated the origins of the tarantella in ancient healing rituals. For her new show, "Tarantella: Spider Dance," she is joined by her group I Giullari di Piazza in whirling choreography and, perhaps less authentically, a "techno tarantella trance dance." Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 254-1109, theaterforthenewcity.net; $15. (Ben Sisario)CHRIS BROWN, BOW WOW (Friday) A couple of years ago a teenage Chris Brown arrived with one of the most polite come-ons to be crooned in the hip-hop era: "I don't know your name, but excuse me, miss/I saw you from across the room." Badder now at 18, he still can't resist being a sweetie. In his new video, "Kiss Kiss," he plays both the friendly nerd who picks up a girl's books and the bully who assaults his rival with a flying tackle. For this tour he's teamed with the 20-year-old rapper Bow Wow, likewise trying to outgrow his former role as an under-age star. At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $49.75 to $105.75. (Sisario)DAVID BROZA (Monday) This Israeli songwriter has recorded songs in Hebrew, English and Spanish, singing earnestly and playing virtuosic guitar that connects the Middle East, flamenco and rock. At 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $45 and $65. (Jon Pareles) ★ MYLIE CYRUS (Thursday) Every holiday season needs at least one unattainable gift. Once it was Cabbage Patch Kids. In 2007 it's tickets to see this 15-year-old pop princess, who performs as both herself and  her TV  alter ego, Hannah Montana. (For the childless: Imagine a younger, smilier Hilary Duff.) Her tour sold out instantly, and a furor over secondary-market prices became a minor news event. Supply may have been limited, but of course it's all about demand; as one Ticketmaster executive observed, "Hell hath no fury like the parent of a child throwing a tantrum." With the Jonas Brothers. At 7 p.m., Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y.,, (631) 888-9000, nassaucoliseum.com; sold out. (Sisario)MICHAEL FEINSTEIN (Friday, Saturday, Wednesday and Thursday) Beneath the festive trappings of Mr. Feinstein's annual holiday extravaganza is one of his most personal shows. Along with the usual frolics,  he pays heartfelt tribute to departed friends and musical idols, including Rosemary Clooney, whom he fondly remembers as his "Beverly Hills mother."  Friday and Saturday at 8:30 and 11 p.m., Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., Feinstein's at Loews Regency, 540 Park Avenue, at 61st Street, feinsteinsattheregency.com, (212) 339-4095; $95 cover, with a $40 minimum. (Stephen Holden)RACHELLE GARNIEZ (Saturday) A mainstay of the New York jazz and new-music scenes, even though she doesn't quite fit into either, Rachelle Garniez is a talented accordionist and straight-faced wit whose songs are romantic, rhapsodic and casually hilarious.  She celebrates a new album, "Melusine Years." At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15. (Sisario)GOOD FOR THE JEWS (Sunday) Irreverent hipsters musing in song on the true meaning of being a Jew at Christmas are now as much a part of the season as fruitcake, and Good for the Jews delivers the dreidel and ham gags as well as anybody. ("It's clear that we're the chosen ones/We got eight nights, you got just one.") The group has gathered an all-star cast of comedians for its show at the Highline Ballroom this Sunday ("the 20th night of Hanukkah"), including Dave Attell, Todd Barry and Rachel Feinstein, as well as the band LeeVees. At 8 p.m., 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $17. (Sisario)HATEBREED (Wednesday) Like a restaurant that serves only one dish, Hatebreed, a veteran metal-core band from New Haven, sticks to a hyper-aggressive guitar churn and vocals that all seem to bark one message: "Destroy everything/Decimate what threatens me." Hey, it's more consistent than Denny's. The group headlines the Stillborn Fest tour, with the long-serving New York hardcore soldiers Agnostic Front, as well as God Forbid, Necro, Shai Hulud, At All Costs, Only Hell Remains and Thy Will Be Done. At 5 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $25. (Sisario)ISSA (Friday and Saturday) The highly independent Canadian songwriter Jane Siberry, who renamed herself Issa last year, could be a sister to Joni Mitchell, Laurie Anderson and Sarah McLachlan. Her songs, like "Calling All Angels," are full of tenderness and ambition. At 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $25. (Pareles)LAKE TROUT (Saturday) The lean, largely instrumental songs of Lake Trout, from Baltimore, pull together an unlikely constellation of minimalist guitar patterns and jittery breakbeats for progressive rock that doesn't spurn dancers. With the Epochs and the Shackletons. At 9 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $16. (Pareles)LITTLE ANNIE, BABY DEE (Saturday) Two singers from the orbit of Antony and the Johnsons. Little Annie has a contralto as dry and worldly as her  humor; her version of Frank Sinatra's "It Was a Very Good Year" is so sardonic that it's almost cruel. Baby Dee, whose résumé includes a stint in a Coney Island sideshow, has a similar but more playful sense of dark vaudeville: "Teeth are the only bones that show." At 11:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15. (Sisario)THE LOX (Thursday) This  long-dormant rap trio from Yonkers plays a rare show. Fans have been waiting seven years for a new album  — will there be any news? At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $26. (Sisario)NAS (Wednesday) Nasir Jones, a k a Nas, is a prince of New York rap who never misses a chance to boast his old-school bona fides — he grew up in the Queensbridge projects — or to play the gadfly. His last album was called "Hip Hop Is Dead," and his new one, due in February, has as its title the racial slur that the New York City Council symbolically banned this year. At 8 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; $49.75. (Sisario)O'DEATH (Friday and Saturday) Raw and ragged, this New York band draws from the starkness and spiritual purity of Appalachian folk, the menace of punk and the rowdy theatricality of Tom Waits, jumbling sacred and profane. With Salt & Samovar and Hoots & Hellmouth on Friday, and Meowskers, Takka Takka and the Royale Brothers on Saturday. At 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10. (Sisario) ★ OZZY OSBOURNE AND ROB ZOMBIE (Saturday) Every concert Mr. Osbourne plays, no matter who else is on the bill, is essentially an Ozzfest. But for his current solo tour, this Black Sabbath singer and beloved symbol of doddering, middle-aged rock stardom has picked a worthy opening act: Rob Zombie, a master of metal bubblegum and who has parlayed his taste and skill in creating gory, cartoonish imagery into a career as a film director. At 7:30 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $29.75 to $99.75. (Sisario)PAUL GREEN SCHOOL OF ROCK ALL-STARS (Wednesday and Thursday) As seen in the documentary "Rock School," Mr. Green offers an extensive curriculum at his Philadelphia school, teaching youngsters the rock 'n' roll canon as well as the fundamentals of power chords and budda-budda bass lines. His students play three shows in two days at the B. B. King Blues Club & Grill as part of their holiday tour, with a program of — what else — classic rock favorites. Wednesday at 1:30 and 7 p.m., Thursday at 1:30 p.m., 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $15. (Sisario)A PLACE TO BURY STRANGERS, CLOUD ROOM (Friday) A Place to Bury Strangers, a Brooklyn trio, looks back fondly and loudly to the guitar drones of 1980s groups like Jesus and Mary Chain and Spacemen 3. The band's front man, Oliver Ackermann, is a legitimate pro when it comes to noisemaking: He founded a company that makes custom guitar-effects pedals. The Cloud Room, also from Brooklyn, borrows from David Bowie and new wave, and has real-life worries. Its best song, "Hey Now Now," was written when the leader, J Stuart, had a false-positive H.I.V. scare.  At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Sisario)?UESTLOVE (Wednesday) The drummer and stylistic rudder for the Roots, the Philadelphia crew that for two decades has obstinately stood for the use of live instruments in hip-hop, ?uestlove, a k a Amir Thompson, plays D.J. at S.O.B.'s on the night after Christmas. His interests are broad, but expect some musky old funk and plenty of Fela Kuti. At 9 p.m., 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $15. (Sisario)LAS RUBIAS DEL NORTE (Friday) Long in residence at Barbès, a cozy bar in Park Slope, Brooklyn, Las Rubias del Norte — "the Blonds of the North," a play on the name of one of the most famous bands in Mexico, Los Tigres del Norte — play boleros, cumbias and other Latin styles, elegantly arranged for a small band and two songbird sopranos. At 10 p.m., 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue,  (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; $10. (Sisario)
