LOS ANGELES, Oct. 30 — The Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz wrapped up its 20th annual jazz competition on Sunday night with an emblematic scene. At the Kodak Theater in Hollywood the institute's chairman, Herbie Hancock, sported a shoulder-slung synthesizer and a high-wattage smile. He was leading an all-star group through the opening salvo from his album "Head Hunters," one of the best-selling jazz titles of all time.Close behind him onstage were three trumpeters: Terence Blanchard and Roy Hargrove, judges in this year's contest, which focused on their instrument, and Ambrose Akinmusire, the 25-year-old Oakland, Calif., native who won first prize. Together they formed a tight horn section, and a seriously overqualified one. None of them took the solo spotlight, not even Mr. Akinmusire, who had publicly earned the right to it.The Monk competition has always served a dash of spectacle along with its dose of prestige, in the interest of keeping funds flowing (from government and private sources and from the likes of Cadillac and GMAC Financial Services, the presenting sponsors). But this year was splashier than most. No doubt the setting had something to do with it: The competition customarily takes place in Washington, where red-carpet arrivals tend to be more powerful (possibly) and less glamorous (assuredly). The bigger factor was Mr. Hancock, who received a humanitarian award during the concert, and whose staggeringly broad career provided the evening's theme."He's been always connected with tomorrow," Quincy Jones said, introducing Mr. Hancock. Coming from Mr. Jones — the venerable pop producer, erstwhile jazz trumpeter and yet another judge on the heavyweight panel, along with Clark Terry, Herb Alpert and Hugh Masekela — this pronouncement felt consequential. It also seemed to indicate one of the unspoken criteria for the competition, which has favored a spirit of progressivism in recent years.The notion of forward motion in jazz has been about as durable as the notion of steadfast tradition; both principles logically inform the music. And given the deterioration of jazz's foothold in mainstream culture, Mr. Hancock embodies a potent ideal: the rare commercial operator who has kept his credibility intact.Before he walked out to accept his distinction on Sunday, Mr. Hancock took a box seat and enjoyed (or endured) a tour through his pop catalog, as performed by a band led by Rickey Minor, the producer best known (in this town, anyway) as the musical director for "American Idol."Those highlights spanned glossy funk, fusion and even hip-hop, when Grandmixer DXT scratched his way through "Rockit," the cut he made with Mr. Hancock in the frontier era of MTV. At one point the flutist Hubert Laws spearheaded a quietly smoldering take on Mr. Hancock's "Butterfly." Then the actor Jamie Foxx took over: One of his R&B albums features a sample of the song on a slow jam he calls "VIP."Of course there are those who would question whether "VIP," or even "Rockit," represents a step forward for Mr. Hancock, who spent the 1960s redefining the modern language of jazz piano. The concert made no effort to address that issue. What it did, finally, was let Herbie be Herbie: in a pastel-hued "Maiden Voyage," with his compatriot Wayne Shorter on soprano saxophone, and in a few songs with Joni Mitchell and Sting."It's great to have friends," Mr. Hancock said, chuckling, before Sting emerged to croon "My Funny Valentine" alongside the trumpeter Chris Botti. Before that Ms. Mitchell had led a solid charge through a new song, "Hana," and a masterly reading of an old one, "Tea Leaf Prophecy." (Since she was backed by Mr. Hancock, Mr. Shorter, the bassist John Patitucci and the drummer Vinnie Colaiuta, it was a re-enactment of her guest turn on "River: The Joni Letters," Mr. Hancock's gorgeous new album.)Amid this hoopla one thing was buried: the competition. Perhaps this was inevitable, and a small price to pay for the pomp and publicity. Still, it was a shame, not least because the evening's three finalists were serious musicians. Along with Mr. Akinmusire (pronounced ah-KIN-moo-SEE-ray), they were Jean Caze, a melodist with a reassuring tone (second place), and Michael Rodriguez, an incisive yet orderly improviser with a modernistic feel (third). In what was either a showbiz concession or some kind of point about versatility, each trumpeter had to play one of his two selections in support of the singer Al Jarreau.This was simply a bad idea. (No disrespect to Mr. Jarreau.) It robbed the finalists of stage time and seemed to make them ill at ease. Anyone in the hall who heard only this much from the three trumpeters — a majority, it's safe to say — might have reasonably underestimated the skill level of the competition.The semifinals, held on Saturday afternoon at Schoenberg Hall at the University of California, Los Angeles, offered a much better indication. Mr. Rodriguez was the first of 10 competitors, and he plunged straight into "Yes and No," a theme by Mr. Shorter. His rapport with the superb  rhythm section — the pianist Geoffrey Keezer, the bassist Reginald Veal and the drummer Carl Allen — was responsive and sure.The other competitors were strong, and unexpectedly diverse. Mr. Caze confidently evoked Miles Davis on a pensive ballad, "Old Folks," and a brisk anthem, "My Shining Hour."But Mr. Akinmusire's three-song set was on another level entirely. Starting off with Mr. Shorter's "Fee Fi Fo Fum," he moved nimbly around the horn, trawling a dark middle register and then easily punching up an octave. He arranged the tune as a shuffle — always a good idea when Mr. Allen is on board — and he never ran out of harmonic options. Later he played Benny Golson's "Stablemates" as a duet with Mr. Keezer, and their high-wire act was bracing, exhilarating. At that point Mr. Akinmusire must have suspected, as the judges did, that the prize was his to lose.And he must have known, as Mr. Hancock did, that his victory doubles as a testimonial. In 2005 Mr. Akinmusire was one of seven students admitted to the Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz Performance, a two-year college program under Mr. Blanchard's artistic direction.  One of several educational initiatives under the Monk Institute banner, it has been a resounding success.How Mr. Akinmusire himself will turn out is an open question, as it should be. His choice of instrument bodes well for any crossover attempt, as his judges in the competition can uniformly attest. Then of course there's Mr. Hancock's endorsement, which can't hurt. Not one bit.FOR sanity's sake, most New Yorkers try to keep the city's cacophony at bay. But the composers Bruce Odland and Sam Auinger, who go professionally by the name O+A, insist that the time to listen is now, before it is too late. In their opinion, the bell tolls for the sounds generated by oil-fueled transportation because fossil fuels are running out.Yet how do you say goodbye to fuel?The composers offered an answer one recent Friday evening with a piece called "Requiem for Fossil Fuels." A four-member choir, dressed in downtown black, sang ecclesiastic music in Latin while truck horns, the screech of brakes and other sounds emanated from elevated speakers encircling the main hall in Judson Memorial Church on Washington Square.It was as if the hundred members of the audience were at the bottom of a sonic bowl while the two composers, sitting at their laptops, channeled their digitized collection of discordant urban sounds from around the world.The clamorous results left some members of the audience staring at the air to see what might come next. Others kept their eyes squeezed shut, the better to absorb the unusual soundscape."The acoustic mayhem made me think of Dante's 'Inferno,'" said the actor Andre Gregory, who appeared in the film "My Dinner With Andre" and has worked with Mr. Odland in the theater. "It was terrifying."A highlight of the performance was a plaintive rendition of the Kyrie Eleison, the portion of the Roman Catholic Requiem Mass that asks for mercy, in this case from the incessant petro-fueled din. And any commuter who regularly passes through Grand Central Terminal would sympathize with the composers' efforts to make the Dies Irae audible above the failing brakes of an arriving train.A visual artist named Marcy B. Freedman, who was in the audience, said she particularly admired the way the composers blended noise and classical voices. "It pulled my attention away from my usual visual perspective to a hearing perspective," Ms. Freedman said after the concert as she headed into the raucous bustle of Washington Square South.The composers regard their composition as both a warning and a salute to a dying way of life. One section of the requiem was sung over the sound of cars speeding along the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway; another made use of the roar of a helicopter taking off near Wall Street."Using all that oil to transport one or two people is a glorious display of power," Mr. Odland said. Matter-of-factly, he predicted that in 20 years, all helicopters would be grounded for lack of fuel.REDWOOD CITY, Calif.NEIL Young was thrilled about an old car. Over chile verde at a Mexican restaurant near the landmark Fox Theater here, where he was rehearsing for his tour, Mr. Young's grizzled face lit up as he described his Linc-Volt.The car is a 1959 Lincoln Continental Mark IV, a 19-foot, two-ton behemoth. It was a commercial flop in the year of the massive tail fin, and in its original configuration the car is an ecological disaster, guzzling gas and leaving giant black exhaust spots on the ground as it starts up. That's the Linc part. Volt is because Mr. Young is converting the car to battery power, with a biodiesel engine for backup, and he plans to drive it to its birthplace in Detroit to demonstrate the viability of electric cars. He's making a movie about the trip. The film, "is so different from everything that I've ever done," he said. "It's totally positive."The converted Linc-Volt will still barrel along a highway, but silently. It should get up to 100 miles per gallon of fuel, since it runs most of the time on electricity. "The car is really heavy," Mr. Young said. "It's got a lot of inertia. So that gives it more power."The Linc-Volt makes an irresistible metaphor for Mr. Young's career: a memorable profile, the inertia of four decades and the latest new start, an old-fashioned exterior that's been rejiggered within. His new album, "Chrome Dreams II" (Reprise), takes a slice through Mr. Young's present and past, time-warping through his career. He is also reconfiguring his past with the small-theater tour that will bring him to the United Palace in New York for six shows, Dec. 12 to 19.Mr. Young, 61, is no fashion plate. The Fox Theater, which he has often used for rehearsals in recent years, was built in 1929 as a vaudeville house and is now on the National Register of Historic Places. But Mr. Young could almost be mistaken for a stagehand. Over two days of rehearsal he wore T-shirts, jeans and an old sport jacket, as well as a paint-spattered railroad cap that may turn up onstage during the tour. He speaks the way he writes lyrics: in terse, unadorned cadences full of plain one-syllable words. As far as career goes, he says, "I work for the Muse."He operates by whim and intuition, veering every which way: from the homegrown rock opera "Greendale" in 2003, which was staged as Mr. Young's most elaborate arena production; to the pensive, made-in-Nashville "Prairie Wind" (and a Jonathan Demme film of it, called "Neil Young: Heart of Gold") in 2005; to the quickly recorded protest-song broadside "Living With War" in 2006. When making albums, "it's not like you have a real idea what's going on," he said. "You just start, and sometimes it happens easier than other times." For the new album, "the songs came pretty fast, and they weren't there in the first place, and they were there when I was done."But Mr. Young has also regularly combed through his archives. Lately — after years of nearly releasing old recordings, only to decide that they needed to be remastered once more for newer, higher-fidelity technology — he has put out albums of galvanizing live shows from 1970 and 1971. He plans to release a 1976 concert from the Fox Theater in Atlanta, where, for some reason, he imagined himself talking to the ghost of Judy Garland."Chrome Dreams II" also glances back to the 1970s. It is named after "Chrome Dreams," a 1977 album Mr. Young never released. That album, widely bootlegged, would have introduced some of his best songs, among them "Like a Hurricane," "Too Far Gone" and "Powderfinger." The cover had been designed, and the album had been mastered, but it never appeared.Why not? "Sometimes there isn't a good reason," he said. "It just passed me by. I did it, I got to a certain place, and then something would happen and distract me, and I would get into something else and forget what I was doing before. That's happened a lot."The anchor of "Chrome Dreams II" is "Ordinary People," an 18-minute song he recorded in 1988. Those people include drug dealers, factory workers, boxers, gun runners, vigilantes and models. "The people were real to me," he said. "They're all in there. I don't know where they came from. I can't make them go away. I didn't invite them."Mr. Young recorded "Ordinary People" with his R&B-flavored Bluenotes band,  in one take. "There is no Take 2," he said. He considered the song too hefty to include on an album until now. (Ever the contrarian, Mr. Young is also releasing the full 18-minute song as a single. On vinyl.) Yet the main giveaway of the song's age is a lyric mentioning Lee Iacocca, the Chrysler executive. "Ordinary People" sits easily alongside the rest of "Chrome Dreams II"; it uses three of the album's core musicians and the same engineer in the same truck. When Mr. Young finds collaborators, he keeps them on call.The band on the album, which is also his touring band, brings together musicians he has worked with in separate projects. Ralph Molina, from Crazy Horse, is on drums. Ben Keith, who has been in Mr. Young's country-flavored bands since "Harvest," is on guitar and pedal steel guitar. And Rick Rosas, who has backed Mr. Young in projects from the Bluenotes to "Living With War," is on bass. Mr. Young's wife, Pegi, is the opening act; she and her keyboardist, Anthony Crawford, sometimes join Mr. Young's band during the set."Chrome Dreams II" is a miscellany, as "Chrome Dreams" was. It has distorted-guitar Crazy Horse-style stompers like the 14-minute "No Hidden Path"; it has wistful country-folk songs like "Beautiful Bluebird" (an old song finally getting a studio recording) and "Ever After"; it even has a 1950s-tinged ballad, "Shining Light."Many of the album's songs revolve around a "spiritual quest," Mr. Young said. "There's a lot of thinking going on in the record, pondering and kind of searching for the experience that enlightens you in some way." In "Ever After" he sings, with characteristic simplicity, "The world is full of questions/Some are answered, some are not/The only faith you're keepin'/Is the faith that you still got."The album ends with "The Way," a waltz featuring a children's choir. "So many lost highways that used to lead home/But now they seem used up and gone," he sings by himself; then the children promise, "We know the way." He said that he told them: "You have to pretend that you're singing to your parents and you know how to have world peace. They don't. You have to tell them while they're sleeping, so they know when they wake up, but you can't tell them too loud or they'll wake up."For Mr. Young, faith doesn't involve organized religion. It's about walking among the trees on his Northern California ranch, "trying to figure things out," he said. "How did I get to where I am? I mean, what happened? Where's the guy who wrote the other songs? Where's the guy who wrote a lot of the early songs? There are some songs I can't even sing. I don't even know who wrote them. But I know I did. When I listen to myself, I go, 'O.K., but I can't do that now.'"On tour Mr. Young will be playing a solo set followed by a set with the band. "I want every song to be coming from me, not coming from who I was or who I'm trying to be or who people think I am or who they want me to be," he said. "All those things are out. It's just got to be: 'Is this going to flow like water through me? Can I swim in this sound?'"The solo set is something like the solo tour he did in 1992 for "Harvest Moon." He brought back that tour's lighting designers and has his old Univox electric organ, with angel wings, that can be lowered to the stage from overhead. The set lists are built from "Chrome Dreams II," a few of Mr. Young's best-known songs and many rarities. Among them are "Bad Fog of Loneliness," a song cut from "Harvest," and a mid-1970s song, "No One Seems to Know," that says "time is better spent searching than in finding.""Some of them went right under the radar," he said. "Some of them never came out. I'll be doing a lot of songs that are only on collectors' albums that are not my albums, that are bootlegs." He continued,  "It's like if you were in a gallery and all the paintings were upside down or piled in a corner, and the ones that you knew, that you'd seen in the magazines, were all really. ..." He paused. "I want to know what's in the corner. Put them on the wall for a while."For a man whose hair usually looks windblown and whose shirt is perpetually untucked, Mr. Young is surprisingly persnickety. He chose every theater on this tour. "I want to control the environment," he said. "They have to be auditoriums. The audio part is very important. I prefer that they be old. I prefer that they be in cities. I prefer that the outside elements are totally blocked out. There's no sunshine coming in through a window; I don't want any of that. I don't want to have anything to do with the real world while you're in there. It's not where we're going."He had further stipulations. The stage lighting will be  incandescent — no arc lights or halogens — and not automated or computerized. A spotlight will be operated by hand; changing the color of a light will involve replacing a gel. The equipment is vintage, like Mr. Young's guitars — he has one he calls Hank, which once belonged to Hank Williams — or it has been made in the same way for decades.Under the Art Deco Revival ceiling of the Fox, under those incandescent lights, the band sounded vintage. Mr. Young was still auditioning songs for the tour. There were keepers like "Cortez the Killer" and "The Loner"; there were possibilities like "Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere." After a run-through of "Only Love Can Break Your Heart," Mr. Young decided it had no life left. "Something else in that neighborhood would be good," he said.Through the years Mr. Young's music has usually sounded rough-hewn, but it has never been haphazard. Backstage Mr. Molina — the drummer in Crazy Horse since 1969 — said that he still gets nervous every time he plays, trying to live up to Mr. Young's standards. The band socked out the new "Spirit Road," a chunky two-chord rocker, and it had the old Crazy Horse thrust: the slow, steady trudge of someone walking directly into a perpetual high wind. From the seats  it sounded good.When it was over, Mr. Young looked disgusted. "We're going to do this again," he said. "We're going to fix this now." He demanded better backup vocals, a different monitor mix, more attentiveness from the whole band and crew. And on the next run-through the song was twice as strong. "We'll get it," Mr. Young said. But he still didn't look satisfied.To hear the singer Steve Tyrell growl "It Had to Be You" with the aw-shucks geniality of a Texas good ole boy is to be reminded of something  that can be obscured in the rarefied environment of Manhattan cabaret: The great American songbook belongs to everyone. That is what  Willie Nelson demonstrated nearly three decades ago with his great album "Stardust," in which he treated popular standards as dirt-plain nostalgic touchstones stripped of harmonic complexity and in no need of further explication.For Mr. Nelson interpretation didn't involve close line readings. He approached standards in the same spirit that pop singers perform Christmas carols. The awareness of time buried in Mr. Nelson's rugged voice and his stoic attitude did the rest.Although Mr. Tyrell, who opened a nine-week engagement at the Café Carlyle on Tuesday evening, isn't as primal a musical force, he comes from the same school. He is a producer of Rod Stewart's albums, which, like Mr. Nelson's, celebrate unadorned tunefulness and treat lyrics as verses with a singalong familiarity. Where Mr. Stewart favors brisk foxtrot tempos, Mr. Tyrell takes things at a more leisurely, sometimes sluggish pace, the better to let his friendly, quasi-New Orleans drawl register its associations with down-home Southern Americana.If standards are secular Christmas carols, Mr. Tyrell might be described as a hip pop Santa Claus spreading a jolly macho cheer. His voice is scruffier than Mr. Stewart's, and the arrangements for a seven-piece band that features Lew Soloff on trumpet and Lou Marini on reeds have strong jazz and rhythm-and-blues inflections.Wednesday's show was divided between prerock standards and songs by Burt Bacharach and Hal David, Mr. Tyrell's mentors when he worked for Scepter Records in the 1960s. The blunt, declarative "This Guy's in Love With You" proved to be an ideal vehicle for Mr. Tyrell because he possesses more vocal clout than Mr. Bacharach or Herb Alpert, who made it a hit in 1968.Drawing from his storehouse of music business tales, Mr. Tyrell recalled how he was responsible for his fellow Texan B. J. Thomas's recording "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head" in the movie "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid." The song, he said, was Mr. Bacharach's conscious attempt to write a Bob Dylan-style cowboy tune. Listen to it again, and you will immediately recognize the connection.CLASSICALFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.Opera'AGRIPPINA' (Friday) This early Handel opera takes us to the world of the Roman Emperor Claudius and, more particularly, his scheming wife, Agrippina, and her unrestrained ploys to have her son, Nero (Nerone in the opera), named Claudius's successor. Lillian Groag's production for New York City Opera increases the comedy, not entirely naturally: It's a kind of "Springtime for Hitler" version of "I, Claudius," with serious parts lopped out and wisecracks interpolated. The cast includes Nelly Miricioiu in the title role, Jennifer Rivera as Nerone, Heidi Stober as Poppea, David Walker as Ottone and João Fernandes as Claudio. Ransom Wilson conducts. At 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Allan Kozinn)'AIDA' (Friday, Monday and Thursday) Here it is again — the Met's big-time production of Verdi's big-time opera. The cast includes Angela M. Brown in the title role, and Olga Borodina (Friday) and Luciana D'Intino (Monday and Thursday) as Amneris. The evening's Radames is a question mark, and given the fevered shuffling of tenor roles at the Met these days, it could end up being almost anybody. The talented Kazushi Ono conducts. Friday and Monday night at 7:30, Thursday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out Friday; $80 to $320 remaining on Monday; $65 to $175 on Thursday. (Bernard Holland)'CARMEN' (Saturday) Six feet tall and stunning, the mezzo Beth Clayton is a rare bird: a Carmen naturally able to project the character's tremendous power and sexiness, and incapable of the usual hip-swinging schtick. All she needs is a little more concentration on the purely musical side to help showcase her fine voice and turn her impressive Carmen into a great one. Scott Piper is alternately strong and wavering as Don José, and Carlos Archuleta sings for the first time with the company in the ungrateful role of Escamillo. (Was ever a hit tune so difficult to bring off well?) At 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Anne Midgette)★ 'CENDRILLON' (Saturday and Wednesday) A sizable contingent of opera buffs find Massenet's works musically thin and dramatically cloying. But "Cendrillon," his 1899 retelling of the Cinderella story, may be the sleeper among his lesser-known operas.  Musically, it is well served by the new production at City Opera. The appealing cast is headed by a charming young couple: the French soprano Cassandre Berthon as Cendrillon, and the Canadian tenor Frédéric Antoun as Prince Charmant. Renaud Doucet's production sets the tale in the 1950s, with surreal sets, garish costumes and comic antics that sometimes turn inane. Still, the wistfulness  comes through. Saturday at 1:30 p.m., Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Anthony Tommasini)★ 'MACBETH' (Saturday) In his Met debut, the English director Adrian Noble has created a stylistically eclectic, grimly effective and, at times, intriguingly playful new production of "Macbeth," Verdi's breakthrough early masterpiece. The modern-dress staging blends contemporary and melodramatic touches: The chorus of witches is portrayed as a coven of bag ladies in frumpy coats with bulging handbags. Though the baritone Zeljko Lucic is not the most menacing Macbeth, he sings with rich lyricism and burnished tone. The soprano Maria Guleghina has a hard edge to her sound these days. But she certainly has searing power as Lady Macbeth. James Levine's exciting and insightful conducting is the highlight of the production. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, metopera.org; (212) 362-6000, $42 to $220. (Tommasini)★'LA TRAVIATA' (Saturday and Wednesday) In her role choices, Renée Fleming has sometimes admitted to "hiding behind little-known repertory." That changed in the 2003-4 season, when she performed the touchstone role of Violetta in Verdi's "Traviata." Though not to all tastes, Ms. Fleming's beautifully sung, subtly acted and affecting portrayal was a career milestone.  Now she returns to the house for a series of performances as Violetta, which, lest you doubt her star power, are sold out. Another attraction should be the Alfredo of the excellent lyric tenor Matthew Polenzani.  Saturday at 1:30 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org. (Tommasini)'VANESSA' (Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) The challenge for Samuel Barber here was creating a score that would make listeners care about the deeply neurotic characters in Gian Carlo Menotti's ludicrous libretto. He largely succeeded, using the opera composer's time-honored technique of giving his creations ravishingly lyrical vocal lines, and accompanying them with a rich orchestral score. Michael Kahn directs this new production at City Opera, with Anne Manson conducting. The cast includes Lauren Flanigan in the title role, with Katharine Goeldner as Erika, and Ryan MacPherson as Anatol, the other players in this odd, multigenerational love triangle. Sunday at 1:30 p.m., Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Kozinn)'DIE ZAUBERFLÖTE' (Tuesday) Julie Taymor's quirky production of this Mozart classic is back at the Met, but sounding oddly tepid. Eric Cutler as Tamino, and Anna-Kristiina Kaappola as the Queen of the Night, have their moments, and Stéphane Degout's Papageno is appealingly rustic. But the real standout in the cast is Diana Damrau, whose portrayal of Pamina is beautifully sung and gracefully nuanced. Kirill Petrenko conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $320. (Kozinn)Classical MusicBARGEMUSIC (Friday through Sunday) Call it a complement to "A View From the Bridge," William Bolcom's Arthur Miller-based opera; on Friday, that view would take in a performance of the same composer's four violin sonatas in this venerable floating concert hall in Brooklyn. The rest of the weekend is given over to piano trios by Mozart, Beethoven and Brahms. Friday and Saturday night at 8, Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+, Friday only. (Midgette)GERALD BARRY (Friday) The concept for the Miller Theater's Composer Portrait series could not be simpler: The writers are brought to town to discuss their work and oversee a program of their pieces. Thanks to the diverse lineup — from leading figures to eclectic upstarts — the excellent roster of players and the adventurous atmosphere of the series, these concerts are almost always stimulating. On Friday Gerald Barry, born in 1952 in Ireland, receives his first large-scale exposure in New York in this installment of the program. His music has been described as crackling with energy and formidable in its demands on performers. Works to be played include Piano Quartets Nos. 1 and 2, an Octet, "Bob" and "Au Milieu." At 8, Broadway and 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com; $25; $15 for students. (Tommasini)BERGEN PHILHARMONIC (Tuesday) This Norwegian ensemble, established in 1765, visits the United States for the first time in 41 years with Andrew Litton, its first American music director. To commemorate the centenary of Grieg's death (the orchestra's artistic director from 1880-82) the Bergen players will perform his Piano Concerto in A minor, with André Watts as soloist. The program also includes Shostakovich's Symphony No. 5 and the New York premiere of "Chatter" by the Norwegian composer Knut Vaage. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $30 to $65. (Vivien Schweitzer)★ H K GRUBER (Thursday) As part of the Berlin in Lights festival, this Austrian composer and conductor has set aside his own amusingly idiosyncratic music in favor of works by Kurt Weill and Hanns Eisler. His recordings show him to be a master of both, and his program, with the Zankel Band (a group of New York freelancers), includes Weill's "Kleine Dreigroschenmusik" and, naturally, "Berlin im Licht." At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $32 to $40. (Kozinn)★ MARC-ANDRÉ HAMELIN (Sunday) This stellar pianist, known for his adventurous forays into little-known corners of the repertory, has also recently performed more familiar works with  probing insight and musicality. Here, he presents Haydn's Sonata in B minor (Hob. XVI: 32), Chopin's Sonata No. 3 and the second book of Debussy's Préludes. At 5 p.m., Rose Theater, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $25 to $51. (Schweitzer)JUILLIARD ORCHESTRA (Wednesday) Co-productions are more common between opera houses than between orchestras. But when it came to completing the unfinished score of Alfred Schnittke's Ninth Symphony, three orchestras — the Dresden Philharmonic, the Bruckner Orchestra Linz and Juilliard's — joined to commission the composer Alexander Raskatov, whom Mr. Schnittke (who died in 1998) admired. Mr. Raskatov also wrote his own tribute to Schnittke, "Nunc Dimittis"; both works had their premiere in Dresden in June, conducted by Dennis Russell Davies, who will now lead the first American performance. A pendant to the Schnittke and Raskatov pieces is Haydn's Sinfonia Concertante (Op. 84). At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org or juilliard.edu; $10 and $20. (Midgette)UTE LEMPER (Friday and Saturday) This German singer brings her meticulous re-enactments of Berlin cabaret style to a 60-seat room in the Neue Galerie's Café Sabarsky. Two performances each evening will follow several dinner courses. The main course at 7 p.m., with Ms. Lemper at 9, will cost you $153. Dessert, Champagne and Ms. Lemper starting at 10:30 is $130. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Holland)DUDANA MAZMANISHVILI (Tuesday) A young Georgian pianist and recent prizewinner at the Busoni competition, Ms. Mazmanishvili presents a recital at Zankel Hall. Her enticing program includes two premieres by a fellow Georgian, Nika Memanishvili, and the Welsh composer Dafydd Llywelyn's  "Guardian Archangel Gabriel," as well as works by Mozart, Bach and Schumann (the popular "Carnaval").  At 7:30 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $20 to $40. (Tommasini)MAKI NAMEKAWA AND DENNIS RUSSELL DAVIES (Monday) The music of the Austrian composer Alexander Zemlinsky has been getting its due recently, with noteworthy performances by the New York Philharmonic and at Bard College. On Monday the piano duo of Dennis Russell Davies and Maki Namekawa perform the United States premiere of Zemlinsky's complete arrangement of Beethoven's "Fidelio," part of the Austrian Cultural Forum's Mostly Modern series. At 7:30 p.m., 11 East 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 319-5300, acfny.org; free, but reservations are required. (Schweitzer)NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Today, Saturday and Thursday) "Métaboles," by the French master of subtlety and elegance Henri Dutilleux, makes an appearance on the visiting conductor Semyon Bychkov's programs this weekend. Also of interest is Martinu's Concerto for Two Pianos with Katia and Marielle Labèque. Rachamninoff's Second Symphony rounds out the program. On Thursday the Philharmonic, led by Xian Zhang, performs Beethoven's Symphony No. 7, Huang Ruo's "Fanfare" and "Announcement," and Lalo's "Symphonie Espagnole," with the violinist Vadim Repin as soloist. Today at 11 a.m., Saturday at 8 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $26 to $108. (Holland)MURRAY PERAHIA (Saturday) This American pianist remains one of the more complete and musically satisfying performers. His recital program of Bach, Beethoven, Brahms and Chopin (the Three B's, plus one C) is not exactly breaking news, but listeners can be assured of intelligent, engaged attention, albeit to well-traveled repertory. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $32 to $108. (Holland)MAX RAABE (Friday) Carnegie Hall opens its expansive Berlin in Lights festival with a performance by this velvet-voiced crooner, who, at the head of his Palast Orchester, rekindles the spirit of Weimar-era cabaret. At 8, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $21 to $70. (Kozinn)RIVERSIDE SYMPHONY (Friday) The repertory is not exactly bursting with works for folk singer, cello octet and orchestra. This unusual combination is certainly a reason to check out the new piece "Silueta Como Sirena" by Ricardo Zohn-Muldoon, a winner of this home-grown ensemble's composer competition in 2004. Alfredo Sánchez, a Mexican singer-songwriter, takes the vocal line, along with the Tarab Cello Ensemble, which will also perform Villa-Lobos's "Bachianas Brasileiras" No. 1. For something completely different, the orchestra will play Beethoven's Eighth, led by one of its founders, George Rothman. At 7:30 p.m., New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 864-4197, riversidesymphony.org; $50. (Midgette)RICHARD TUCKER FOUNDATION GALA (Sunday) Opera loves big, starry galas, and the annual Tucker shindig, this year celebrating the foundation's winner, the tenor Brandon Jovanovich, promises as many lights as ever, including Renée Fleming, Bryn Terfel, Susan Graham and many others. The conductor Ascher Fisch will again be responsible for keeping the onstage crowd in line, and in tempo. At 6 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $75 to $500. (Midgette)ZEHETMAIR QUARTET (Friday) Fans of the string quartet repertory have rich pickings these days, with a seemingly endless supply of top-notch ensembles passing through town. On Friday the admirable Zehetmair Quartet performs Mozart's Quartet in G (K. 156), Hindemith's Quartet No. 4 and Schumann's Quartet in A minor. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $36 to $44. (Schweitzer)There is only one acceptable way to own a Ramones T-shirt. This is to   have attended a Ramones concert, sweated, bled, transcended and then purchased   one at a merchandise table en route to the concert-hall exit. (Preferably at   the Rainbow Theatre, London,   New Year's Eve 1977, but that's not a deal breaker.)The closest I ever came to owning one was when, as a minor, I borrowed my older   brother's shirt from the "Pleasant Dreams" tour, his first-ever rock concert,   which he attended with the brother of the B-level pop starlet Rachel Sweet and   at which he purchased this garment with his last dollars. What I didn't realize   at the time was how firmly that shirt would establish a complicated precedent.   Rock 'n' roll paraphernalia had to be hard-won, meaningful and scented with   personal experience. It required a depth of symbolic thought — something like   what Bob Seger probably goes through when browsing at a Chevrolet dealership.   Later, I attended several of the band's shows myself, but it seemed too easy   just to walk up and buy a shirt. Or maybe it was that none of the shows   were epic enough to justify it. The iconic shirt had to be earned, on both sides.I was comfortable with the fact that I did not own one. The self-deprivation reinforced standards of cultural behavior that were important to me. Not that anyone else would notice, since no one ever notices when you're not wearing a particular item of clothing, unless that item is your pants. But I had internal street credibility, which, in Ohio, where I live, is sufficient.Then I had children, which involves reconsidering everything you once believed to be true. (The relative grossness of vomit, for instance. Before parenthood, vomit is not considered Something to Catch in Midair, Barehanded.) So when my son asked for a Ramones T-shirt for his 10th birthday because he "wanted one," the request was so culturally complex that I chose not to probe it. Instead I just headed to the mall.I'm not one of those cool detached persons who pretend they don't know that such a thing as Hot Topic exists. I knew about the store. Totally knew. It's like a punk-rock version of Foot Locker. But I'd never glanced inside one. Not because I was above it. More like parallel. It contained things that once defined an entire value system but that I now no longer thought about.Entering Hot Topic required a psychological recalibration. I passed into a room padded with shirts: the Germs, Dead Kennedys, Bad Religion, the Subhumans — punk-era bands that barely ascended to "underground" status and were now benefiting from the contemporary marketing of the obscure.The tall stack of Ramones T-shirts was somehow familiar and almost heartwarming. It wasn't nostalgia I felt. Nostalgia requires a past. This past never existed for me. I saw these shirts on other people, Californians mostly, in the pages of somebody else's copy of Maximum Rock 'n' Roll. These days, things that should be rare are startlingly available. Could it be, I wondered, that my children will never have to struggle? And that Hot Topic is the metaphor for this? I wanted this to be true as much as I wanted this not to be true.I dug through the stack. It ended at Adult Small. He'd have to grow into it. I took it home, wrapped it and set it with the other packages of 10-year-old-boy gear.He wore it for the first time to a friend's cookout. The kids ran off to play, and the parents chatted on the patio. Soon he came running, his forearm half-covering his eyes, the conflicted gesture of a 10-year-old boy Trying Not to Cry, which, if you are not made of obsidian, will break your heart in four seconds."What is it?" I asked. He twisted himself sideways, pulling the tail of his shirt out to show me."The fence," he exhaled over the cliff of his throat.There was a jagged rip, maybe two inches, trailed by a thread of hem. We dads locked eyes in simultaneous understanding."No,"   one said. "You just made it better."I wanted to explain that very truth — that just as emotional pain brings us closer to God, so a rip in our Ramones T-shirt brings us closer to Sid Vicious. But in a moment like that, the notion of conveying wisdom is as relevant as trigonometry offered to a quicksand victim."We can get another one," I said.Which we did. Obtaining a replacement was a mere errand, devoid of ethical-cultural implications, $20, cleanly exchanged.And this is how I ended up owning a Ramones T-shirt, a little snug, with a rip in the bottom, and wearing it with a clean conscience. Because no responsible father ever wastes a perfectly good shirt.Angela Hewitt is traveling the world this season bearing great armfuls of Bach, gifts to be bestowed on places as distant as Macao, Colombia and South Africa. Both books of the "Well-Tempered Clavier" are the subject matter: 48 preludes and fugues that twice visit all the major and minor keys, from C to B minor. Ms. Hewitt, a Canadian, was at Zankel Hall over the weekend, with Book 1 on Friday night and Book 2 on Sunday afternoon.It is a lot of music, in almost every conceivable meaning of "a lot." Bach, first of all, is offering promotional material for a system of tuning favored by him and not far from the equal temperament we use today. Beyond practicality, the preludes and fugues are wonders of counterpoint, though often so contemptuous of generally accepted rules of agreement between notes that they serve poorly as models for conservatory study.With equal iconoclasm, Bach's oddly spaced melodic intervals and adventures in dissonant harmony seem to us almost post-Webernian, with a space-age quality galaxies away from the sober 18th-century German-ness from which they came. (See especially the D sharp minor Fugue from Book 2.) The "Well-Tempered Clavier" is, more important, an encyclopedia of the heart, every shade of extroversion, privacy, happiness and desolation thoroughly described."A lot" also extends to sheer volume. Get past the question of whether these pieces are more suitable for private study than for public performance, although the question is real. How do we present them, if we do? Excerpts are somehow unsatisfying. Dividing the whole into two events, as Ms. Hewitt does, results in two afternoons approaching five hours total. So exquisite is her musicality and so unflagging her attention span that the extra time is hardly begrudged. There is simply too much happening too relentlessly at one sitting to let us properly sort this great music out.Friday and Sunday came uncomfortably close to a marathon, both for her and for us. Ms. Hewitt played Book 1 from memory (with only one noticeable disconnect) and Book 2 with the music. Quality has nothing to do with the use or nonuse of a score, and her special kind of virtuosity — the ability to animate inner conversation and raise or lower the tone of the voices involved — did not desert her. But the pressure of such a large undertaking was felt at every moment.Book 1, from 1722, remains the more extroverted of the two; its little dramas seem to know that beyond the player and the music, someone else is listening. In Book 2, assembled some 20 years later, Bach shuts the door and communes with himself. These later preludes and fugues are no less human, but most are more private. Perhaps, too, they are an adumbration of the catalog Bach was to create at the end of his life: the summings-up of gathered skills that included the B minor Mass and the "Art of Fugue."Stravinsky, who composed at the piano, began every morning by playing one of the preludes and fugues for his own instruction. The "Well-Tempered Clavier" was Schumann's daily bread. In one form or another Bach gets our musical motors running, whether we be fumbling students or great musical minds. Ms. Hewitt, one hopes tirelessly, will be reminding the world of that in the year to come.Philip B. Corbett, who oversees language issues for the newsroom, answered readers' questions Oct. 29-Nov. 2.Mr. Corbett, a deputy news editor, is in charge of revisions in the newsroom's style manual, and he handles questions from colleagues and readers about language and usage in The Times. He also oversees After Deadline, a weekly in-house critique of writing and editing in the paper.He began wrestling with thorny grammar and obscure prose while majoring in Greek and Latin at Harvard, but eventually abandoned the classics for journalism. He worked at a group of Boston-area weeklies, then at The Cape Cod Times and The Providence Journal, before joining The New York Times in 1990 as a copy editor on the metropolitan desk.In addition to his language duties, Mr. Corbett works on the news desk, which oversees the newsroom's night operation and reviews articles and headlines for the front page.Several other editors have answered questions in this column, including Executive Editor Bill Keller, Obituaries Editor Bill McDonald, Assistant Managing Editor Glenn Kramon, Director of Copy Desks Merrill Perlman, Metropolitan Editor Joe Sexton, Living Editor Trish Hall, Investigations Editor Matthew Purdy, National Editor Suzanne Daley, Digital News Editor Jim Roberts, Culture Editor Sam Sifton and Associate Managing Editor Charles Strum. Their responses and those of other Times editors are on the Talk to the Newsroom page.These discussions will continue in future weeks with other Times editors.Attention to GrammarQ. What's with all the grammatical errors in The Times?  I grew up hearing that I should polish my English grammar by reading The Times, but over the past couple of years I've gotten the impression that many of your writers must not even have graduated from high school!Particularly striking is the number of errors relating to agreement between noun and verb, i.e. number errors.Tell me there is hope for The Times.  The rest of the country is sliding back to grade school output.— Peter KurzA. I get versions of this question all the time, and I'm sure I'll see more this week, so I may as well try to tackle it now.Often, as with Mr. Kurz's note, the question includes some variation of the everything-was-better-long-ago theme. Many readers believe that there were fewer factual errors, fewer typos, fewer grammatical lapses in The Times back in the old days. I honestly don't know if this is true, though the perception worries me. I do take a bit of comfort in the fact that I've been hearing similar complaints for all of the 17 years I've been at The Times. Or maybe things really were better up until 17 years ago, when I was hired, and it's been straight down since then. Now that really is something to worry about.It's possible that there really are more mistakes now than there were 20 or 30 years ago. If so, I truly don't believe it's because today's writers or editors are less talented or conscientious than our predecessors. But I do think The Times today tries to do more than it did years ago. There is more late-breaking news, more variety of sections, topics and stories — and now, of course, there's the Web site, with constant updating of news and a whole new range of offerings. We also have more people handling all these tasks, but it may be that our effort to give readers more means that we fall short of perfection even more often than we once did.Still, I'm not sure. I also think it's possible that we're making, on average, just about the same number of dumb mistakes we've always made, but that we all have a tendency to think that things were better way back when.In any case, one thing is clear: we make a lot of mistakes. We make factual errors, which we try rigorously to correct in print and online. We misspell words, we have typos, and yes, sometimes our grammar is just awful. Some such mistakes are inevitable as we handle many tens of thousands of words every day, mostly on tight deadlines. But they should be rare, much rarer than they are. We're trying.And believe it or not, we're happy to have readers who are sophisticated enough to notice when we slip, and who care enough to let us know.The Best Stylebook?Q. My well-marked, well-used copy of The Times style manual ("Revised and Expanded Edition") was published in 2002, and I cannot find a more recent edition. The Associated Press manual is O.K., the Chicago Manual of Style is too cumbersome and The Elements of Style is a tad brief. Two questions, please … 1) what is your favorite style book, and, 2) are there plans to update and reprint a more current Times style manual?  Thank you.— Gerald M. SmithA. I'm glad to be reminded that many people outside the newsroom look to The Times, and our stylebook, for guidance in their writing (I've looked ahead to some of the questions coming in, and I know they won't all be so kind).The print version of our stylebook, by Bill Connolly and my predecessor and mentor Al Siegal, has not been revised since 2002. In the newsroom we rely on an online version, which I update (more or less) regularly. That version, unfortunately, is not currently accessible to the public.I get inquiries from time to time, but I don't know of any plans to do a new print edition any time soon. Another possibility would be to make the online version available, perhaps by subscription, but I know there are some technological issues that would need to be resolved to make that feasible. It won't be my decision, but I can let my colleagues know of the potential interest among readers.As for other references, one that I rely on constantly is Bryan A. Garner's Modern American Usage. It's a lot heavier (and more expensive) than our handy guide, but it is comprehensive, thoughtful and very useful.The Serial CommaQ. I find it fascinating when I notice the various styles that are used in the English language. In particular, I am a criminal justice instructor for a university that has adopted the Gregg Reference Manual as its guiding format for papers. Just one quick example: using a comma after every item in a series within a sentence is required by the Gregg Reference Manual, but I find that almost universally, no newspaper follows this rule. Can you shed some light on how this came about or what your thinking is on these diversions of rules?— Wally MountzA. I debated whether to start off with a broad, philosophical question, or a more narrowly focused one, and decided that comma usage was just the topic for a Monday morning.For those unfamiliar with the controversy, Mr. Mountz is describing the so-called serial comma. Most book and academic editors, using style guides like the Chicago Manual of Style, will publish sentences like this: The candidate promised lower taxes, higher spending, and universal happiness. Most newspapers would print the sentence like this: The candidate promised lower taxes, higher spending and universal happiness. Note that there's no comma before the "and."I haven't researched the question, but I suspect that journalists' aversion to the additional comma arose in the old days when setting type was laborious and expensive. If you already have an "and," why bother with a comma, too? The practice persists, from habit and perhaps from the sense that fewer commas make prose seem more direct and rapid  — qualities we journalists prize in our writing.There are a few cases, however, where we have to make an exception for clarity. For example: The candidate promised lower taxes, higher spending, and ice cream and cake. Without a comma after "spending," the sentence would be a jumble.Collective Nouns: Singular or Plural?Q. Why do we now see treatment of "couple" (as in a married couple) as a plural noun?— Richard C. ColemanQ.From today's Times online:  A team of travel editors and writers from The New York Times uncover affordable places to stay, eat, drink and shop in the Caribbean. Explore all 13 islands.Times editors and writers should stay at home until they learn that a collective singular noun should be followed by the appropriate predicate, in this case: A team...uncovers. I've spotted this error so often that I finally concluded that you folks have simply forgotten  what a collective noun is and that the subject dictates the verb to be used.— Jon SwanA.Both of these queries involve the use of collective nouns — words like team, couple, group. In a sentence, should they be construed as singular or plural?It's a trickier grammatical proposition than one might think. As the esteemed Times editor and language expert Theodore M. Bernstein wrote (in "Watch Your Language"): "Whether to treat collective nouns as singular or plural is a continuing source of perplexity. The British seem to resolve their doubts in favor of the plural; the Americans seem to resolve theirs in favor of the singular. Both should resolve them in favor of logic."As Bernstein suggests, context is important. If the sense is of one unit, viewed as a single entity, then the noun should generally be treated as singular. But if the idea is of a number of separate people or entities acting individually, the plural is often best.Our stylebook has a specific entry on "couple," since the question of singular or plural often arises:On the specific example offered by Mr. Swan — "A team of travel editors ... uncover" — I say, well, hmmnn. That's a good one. Is it one team, traveling en masse from island to island in search of fun and bargains? Or do we mean, in effect, "Many editors, working separately, uncover ..." I can argue it either way, but since "team" does inherently have the sense of a unit acting as one, I might be inclined to agree with Mr. Swan and go with the singular. Then again  ...Why So Squeamish?Q. The Times seems to have a tendency to want to talk about "offensive" words without ever using them. In Monday's paper alone, Edward Rothstein writes "the passage then gives way to an obvious (in retrospect) sexual double entendre." How are readers supposed to know what this is? You've published articles about celebrities being criticized for using anti-gay "slurs," without indicating what they were; surely if it's important enough to write about, you should be able to tell us what the word is. Otherwise, don't publish the article  — you can't have it both ways. — Dr. Jennifer NussbaumA. How to handle sexual references and innuendo, vulgar language, racial or ethnic slurs, and other potentially offensive material is an issue we deal with almost every day. And yes, I guess we do want to have it both ways. We want to report on issues that are important and interesting to our varied and sophisticated readership. But we don't want to offend any of those readers gratuitously, and we don't want the tone of our writing to echo everything you might hear in a locker room, a bar fight or, for that matter, on late-night TV. My mother reads The Times, as does my 11-year-old son. Of course, we can't and don't edit the paper specifically to shield the most sensitive of our readers. But if we're going to offend any of them, it has to be for a compelling reason.As our stylebook says in the entry on "obscenity, vulgarity, profanity":In general, if a writer and editor think that the use of vulgar or otherwise offensive language is absolutely crucial to an article, they consult with me or my colleagues on the news desk. We discuss how important and newsworthy the reference is, how offensive it might be to readers, and whether it's possible to convey the information while avoiding the offensive language. Most of the time it's quite possible to manage without the word, phrase or description in question, so that's what we do.Occasionally we decide that the use of a word or reference, however offensive to some, is important and warranted in the context. One prominent example was in our reporting on the Bill Clinton/Monica Lewinsky case and the Starr report. That coverage included language that would not normally appear in The Times. But the editors believed that, given the political significance, it was important to convey the details. Even then, explicit references were weighed carefully and kept to a minimum.We also set the bar very high for racial, ethnic and sexual slurs. Reporters often argue for quoting such language, contending that the verbatim repetition is necessary to convey the tone or nature of the slur. Such arguments are usually unpersuasive. Our readers, unfortunately, know very well what constitutes a racial slur; under most circumstances, it's enough to report that one was used. Publishing such offensive language repeatedly can coarsen the tone of our writing, andperhaps further desensitize others to the use of the terms.I didn't track down the Harry Potter reference in the article that Dr. Nussbaum referred to, so I'm not sure whether we could have been more direct without being gratuitously offensive. (I did read all the books, so I know it wasn't anything very explicit, in any case!) In general, though, the same principles would apply to double-entendres and other sexual references. We don't shy away from reporting what our readers want or need to know, but we try to do so in language that maintains the sophisticated and civil tone of The Times.The Use of Middle NamesQ. Hello! As a 50-year Times reader now living in Florida, I have always been confused about what appears to be a policy of  always using the middle name of a person (as in Daniel Patrick Moynihan) and not with another (as in Al Gore).Can you clear this up for me? Thanks. — Philip Monger, MiamiA. In handling names, we try to be as consistent as possible, but we also have to consider a person's preference (it's his name, after all) and what will seem familiar to our readers.For most people, the standard reference is first name, middle initial, last name. That's in keeping with the tone we strive for in the news columns: not starchy but traditional. We don't try for a chatty style peppered with nicknames, slang or faddish expressions.But if a well-known person prefers to use a nickname or short form, we do so: Bill Clinton, Al Gore. And if someone is regularly referred to with a full middle name, we will reflect that, as with Daniel Patrick Moynihan. (We haven't been entirely consistent with him, though: a quick check of our archives reveals 5,507 references to Daniel Patrick Moynihan, but 325 to Daniel P. Moynihan).Copy Editing in the Internet EraQ. Are there any copy editing errors or concerns that occur exclusively in the online version The New York Times? Anything you didn't have to think about back in the all-print-only-print days?Is copyediting like dancing  — a young person's endeavor? After all, the mind and the eye age over time, just like a dancer's body. Do you find that as you get older, you are less likely to catch that stray punctuation mark or that duplicated word?  — Simon LeFrancA. I am a great admirer of good copy editing. But I have never before heard it compared to dancing.Perhaps I say this because I'm not getting any younger myself, but I think most copy editors get better as they get older. You can always adjust the type size on your computer if your eyesight isn't what it was. But there's no easy or quick way to accumulate the vast store of knowledge that our best copy editors have  — or the experience and judgment they bring to their task. Google is an amazing thing, but long before Google, you could stand up in any good newsroom at night and and yell out something like: "When was Millard Fillmore first elected?"  — and be pretty sure you'd get the right answer, maybe from more than one direction at once.As for the Web site, I think the biggest challenges it poses for copy editors involve time and volume. Newspaper editors have always worked under tight deadlines  — sometimes that's the only thing that really gets us working  — but with the Web, which can be updated constantly, the deadline is always here. And our Web site includes a huge amount of material beyond what appears in the paper.Our Web editors are always balancing the desire to be fast with the need to maintain our high standards of editing. Generally, I think we do a good job with the balancing act, though there are times when an error will slip through that makes us wish we had taken a few extra minutes. Of course, that happens in print, too  — and if it's in the final edition, we have to live with the goof for 24 hours. At least on the Web, errors can be fixed as soon as they're spotted.Some Web-only features  — especially our blogs  — raise special issues for editors. Like everything on nytimes.com, blogs are held to the same standards of accuracy and fairness that we apply to news articles. But the tone and writing style can be very different  — informal, personal, even quirky. In this way they are more like columns, or some of the personal essays in sections like Thursday Styles. Editors have to be able to allow a blogger's voice and style to come through, while still maintaining Times standards.Acronyms and CapitalizationQ. I am under the impression that reporters and editors have been bowing to spell-checker software that does not understand the concept of an acronym, and thus we see Nafta instead of NAFTA [but at leastnot Dna instead of DNA].  Is this New York Times policy for some reason?A. This is not a case of spell-check run amok. It arises from our stylebook rule on acronyms  — that is, abbreviations that are pronounced as a word. (Yes, folks, we have written rules on acronyms. And ordinal numbers. And umlauts. And did I mention the whole "serial comma" issue?)For acronyms up to four letters long, we use all capital letters: NATO, for instance. But for acronyms of five letters or more, we just capitalize the first letter, as in Nafta or Unicef. That's because a story filled with long, all-cap expressions looks strange on the page, as though someone were shouting at you: NAFTA, I say! NAFTA, NAFTA, NAFTA!Of course, in some cases, that's the whole idea. Companies and other groups love to use capital letters and other typographical devices to make their names stand out. We try to balance accuracy and consistency with what looks best on the page or screen.I've heard complaints about the application of this rule to Nascar and C-Span (a close call because of the hyphen), but this is the first Nafta-related query I've received.The Consensus on ConsensusQ. Is the phrase "general consensus" gaining a foothold in published media? I was shocked to see it used in The New Yorker after we've been told for years that it's a redundancy.  — Patti GarberA. What do you expect if you read a carelessly edited rag like The New Yorker? (I'm joking, of course.)I agree  — as, I think, do most references  — that "general consensus" is redundant. In fact, I included this note earlier this year in After Deadline, an in-house critique of our writing and editing, under the heading "Tautological Redundancies":Still, these issues can be difficult. Some expressions eventually become so universal  — even if they are illogical, redundant or seemingly ungrammatical  — that it begins to seem pedantic to object to them. But for now, I'm holding the line on "general consensus."Grammatical Errors and SolecismsQ. You are introduced, in this week's "Talk to the Newsroom,"  as the man who "oversees language issues."  Hmm. Do you approve of the use of "issues" in this sense?  Do you also allow it as a substitute for "problems"?   I don't.Over the years I have occasionally written to The Times to point out grammatical errors and solecisms.  These are never acknowledged.  I wonder, in fact, if you still employ qualified proofreaders.  Your writers have great difficulty getting "lie" and "lay", in their various forms, right, and proofreaders, if there are any, do not intervene.As a student of Latin and Greek, you must agree that "proactive," as a supposed intensifier of "active," is an etymological monstrosity, and marks the user as a trendy but poorly educated writer. Does The Times still recognize the difference between "healthy" and "healthful"?Your job must be difficult. Don't give up. — Tom FarrellyA. Tough crowd.I wasn't completely happy with the phrase "language issues," but I wanted something broad enough to cover all the various topics that arise. In choosing this word, I was relying on the sixth definition listed in Webster's New World College Dictionary (our preferred dictionary in the newsroom): "a point, matter, or question to be disputed or decided."As for our many lapses, grammatical and otherwise, I'll refer readers back to my very first response, on the question of whether there are more errors in The Times now than years ago. I'm sorry, Mr. Farrelly, that you haven't received personal replies when you point out an error  — we do get a lot of such comments, and it's not always possible to reply individually. But please keep letting us know. I frequently use such reader comments as topics for my in-house After Deadline critique. In fact, I pointed out yet another lie/lay error in one recent critique. You're right: we stumble over that far too often, and it looks amateurish.I'm in your camp on "proactive." But I'm afraid, Mr. Farrelly, we part ways on healthy vs. healthful.For readers who haven't given it much thought: some strict constructionists insist that "healthy" should refer only to someone or something in good health: "a healthy boy." They say that something conducive to good health should be described as "healthful": "a healthful diet," not "a healthy diet." Bryan A. Garner, for example, whose work I praised earlier, takes this view.But I'm persuaded by evidence like that cited in the American Heritage Dictionary, which says this: "This distinction, though tenaciously supported by some critics, is belied by citational evidence — healthy has been used to mean 'healthful' since the 16th century. Use of healthy in this sense is to be found in the works of many distinguished writers, with this example from John Locke being typical: 'Gardening . . . and working in wood, are fit and healthy recreations for a man of study or business.' "Those Pesky Apostrophes and SemicolonsQ.  I am a stickler for the proper use of apostrophes, and am dismayed about what seems like an accelerating lack of adherence to standard usage of apostrophes, not only throughout the culture in general, but also specifically by the writers and editors for The New York Times. In the last few years, I've noticed more and more misused apostrophes in The Times, in both the print and online editions. In the last week or so, I even saw "it's" (when it should have been "its") on the Web site's home page. Even worse, it stayed there for hours without being corrected!Isn't proper usage of apostrophes fairly basic? What's your take on this issue?  — Michael CowanQ. As a member of the baby boom generation (I'm 60 years old), daughter of an English teacher, an English major myself, and a former print journalist, I'm particularly troubled that the Times has dropped the use of semicolons in what are now run-on sentences. (The pitcher threw two fast balls, the catcher caught them both.) Can you tell me how this decision was made? — Deb Adler, Delmar, N.Y.A. I assure these readers that we have made no decision to abandon the proper use of apostrophes, semicolons or any other punctuation marks. Independent clauses in a single sentence with no conjunction should indeed be separated by a semicolon, not a comma. "It's" as a contraction for "it is" should have an apostrophe; "its" as a possessive should not.I know it. You know it. I'm quite sure that every editor here knows it, too. But, as I've said, lapses do occur, more often than we would like. And our readers, who expect better, are disappointed when we stumble on the basics.Fairness and ImpartialityQ. Why does The Times continue to use the term "insurgents" when alluding to terrorist activity in Iraq? "Insurgents" presumes an organized group rebelling against an existing power structure. I believe it came into use because the Bush administration wanted to avoid "guerrilla" and its connotations with the Vietnam War, and wanted to give the impression of one group working to disrupt Democratic Iraq. But to my view, "guerrilla" is more neutral and more descriptive of the actual behavior involved since guerrillas by definition are involved in irregular fighting and are out of uniform, while insurgents by definition are leading an insurrection, which I'm not sure is actually the case. — Jennifer CrichtonQ. As a writer and avid New York Times reader, I have often been disappointed by The Times's decision to forgo usage of the word "torture" in describing acts committed at the hands of Americans. Americans who have broken detainee's legs with baseball bats, raped detainees in confinement, hung detainees by their arms and beaten their legs over the course of four days until detainees have died, have, in your language, merely committed "abuse." It is only once detainees are exported to Syria or Egypt that they undergo "torture," including being beaten with shredded cables. Is there a difference? At what point will "abuse" be elevated in your language to "torture"? Regarding this issue, language doesn't just form the debate, language is the debate, and there has been a severe reluctance to call our actions what they actually are, to our national detriment. — Sharr WhiteQ. I have a quick question for you that may not be your bailiwick, but I've had trouble getting it answered elsewhere.  As an American living in Spain, I follow the news in both Spanish and English.  As you can imagine, terrorism is the subject of many articles in both languages.  Yet, when it comes to word usage, I notice a striking difference.  In Spain and in Spanish, the Basque organization known as ETA is widely referred to as a terrorist organization.  In fact The New York Times' sister newspaper, Madrid's El Pais, regularly uses the terms "organizacion terrorista" and "banda terrorista" regarding ETA.  Why then is it that The New York Times constantly refers to ETA as a "Basque separatist organization" or "Basque separatist movement"?  You can easily understand the different connotations evoked by the two terms.  "Terrorist" conjures up car bombs, assassinations and fear while "separatist" is a much less offensive term suggesting a legitimate political undertaking.  For most people in Spain, ETA clearly belongs in the first camp.  What's The Times's reasoning for its usage? — Peter NagelvoortQ. Have you reviewed, and is there a logic, to the term "suicide bomber"? Consider that the self-declared basic goal of such people is not to die but to kill.  The "bomber" part of The Times's usage refers only to the means chosen.  That the killer often dies in the process is incidental to the means chosen by the killer.  Thus, we would not describe an American soldier who dies while attempting to protect fellow troops as, say, a "suicide grenade thrower." I wonder what your colleague reporters and editors think of a well-established phrase that I consider misleading and sanitizing.  It is by reading their published factual descriptions printed in The Times that I understand both the goals and the means involved. — G. KlajmanQ. I am troubled by The New York Times's follow today of the Blackwater massacre,"Under Siege, Blackwater Takes on Air of Bunker." It is Orwellian, not honest. Your article describes Blackwater's men as "employees," "guards," "workers," and "contractors" . . . but never once as "mercenaries." Any reason why The New York Times refuses to use this proper noun and synonym? — John Buster, Cambridge, Mass.A. I've grouped these different questions together to illustrate one of the toughest problems our reporters and editors confront: how to write about divisive, politically charged and often inflammatory subjects while sticking to the facts and maintaining an objective, impartial tone. Sometimes it seems like an impossible feat.Torture, abuse or alternative interrogation methods? Terrorist, extremist, militant, guerrilla or separatist? Contractors or mercenaries? Domestic spying or terrorist surveillance?Readers challenge us constantly over our reporting on these topics, often zeroing in on specific words or phrases that they believe reveal a bias or obscure the truth. Iraq, terrorism and the Israeli/Palestinian conflict are the biggest sources of such controversy. But we also get frequent complaints about our reporting on domestic politics from readers who assert that our language is loaded or tilted. Neither side in these controversies seems fazed by the fact that, in most cases, we hear almost equally from both sides. The Times coddles the Palestinians; The Times is unfair to the Palestinians. We're dupes of the Bush administration; we're shills for the Democrats. Of course, the mere fact that we take heat from all sides doesn't mean that we're getting it right. But it does show how hard the job is.Each case is different, but there are certain broad principles we keep in mind. Most important, we editors rely on the judgment, experience and accuracy of our correspondents and trust them to report events fairly and completely. It would be absurd for me, sitting here in Manhattan, to try to explain to Alissa Rubin in Baghdad, Steve Erlanger in Jerusalem or Carlotta Gall in Kabul what constitutes terrorism or how best to describe events in those troubled places. They see it, they understand it, and their only goal is to help us know what's happening. Assigning them a set of terms that they must use or avoid would not help their efforts, I'm sure.We try to report facts rather than simply apply labels. Take the case of Hamas, the Palestinian organization that won recent elections but that the United States, the European Union and Israel consider a terrorist group. Hamas members have often carried out or condoned suicide bombings that kill civilians. Those are terrorist acts, and no reporter or editor at The Times would shy away from that description. Hamas also runs clinics and other social services. So, if Hamas is a terrorist group, are those terrorist clinics, staffed by terrorist doctors? Better to state the facts rather than merely relying on predetermined labels.It's often wise, when possible, to steer clear of words that have become freighted with political overtones, or have been adopted exclusively by one side or the other  — even if the words on their face may be factually defensible. One might make a lexicographical case for calling the Blackwater guards "mercenaries" (though generally a mercenary is paid to serve in a foreign army)  — but is there any doubt that the word carries a negative tone that goes beyond simply stating a fact?On the domestic front, the two sides in the abortion debate have long employed terms specifically chosen to advance their positions. In the news pages, we rigorously avoid loaded terms like "pro-life" and "pro-choice." We strive for more neutral, factual terms like "opponents of abortion" and "abortion-rights groups."Our stylebook also warns writers against subtler problems of bias that can creep in through word choice. Here's one passage:I'm not sure this little explanation will do much to persuade or mollify our strongest critics on any side of these controversies. But it may give the rest of our readers some insight into how we wrestle with the problem.Ms., Miss and Mrs. (and Mr., Too)Q. How does The New York Times decide whether to identify a woman as Ms. or Mrs.? For that matter, why does The Times use Mrs. at all? I find the continued use of Mrs. alongside Ms. to be baffling, given that the "Ms."option was created to avoid having to distinguish women according to their marital status as either Miss or Mrs.  What is the rationale? — Rebecca DavisQ. I remember hearing that it took The New York Times quite some time to abandon the titles "Mrs." or "Miss" and start using the all-inclusive "Ms." in its articles. So why is it that certain women, particularly Hillary Clinton and Laura Bush, are still referred to as Mrs. Clinton and Mrs. Bush in The Times? I personally think it's kind of a slap in the face to Hillary Clinton  — she's one of the top candidates for president, and it shouldn't matter whether she is married or not, or to whom. It does make me wonder, though, whether some public figures have expressed to The Times that they prefer a certain title.  — Emily LinerA. Our style is to use "Ms." unless a woman chooses to use "Mrs." or "Miss." That rule applies both to private individuals and to public figures.Aside from these inquiries about "Ms.," I've been surprised not to get more questions about our use of courtesy titles. After all, our continued insistence on Mr., Ms., Dr., etc., is perhaps our most obvious stylistic difference from other news organizations, which generally use bare surnames for second references to people. The Times's style seems strange, at first, to every reporter or editor coming here from another paper.I don't know whether the lack of comment in this forum reflects approval of the courtesy titles, or just familiarity or apathy. I do hear occasionally from reporters who'd like to drop them. Most recently, when we reduced the width of our pages, several people suggested eliminating courtesy titles to save space (it wouldn't really help).Perhaps I'm tradition-bound, but this is one quirk of Times style that I would go to some lengths to defend. We strive for a tone that is literate, civil and serious: not fussy or old-fashioned, but also not chatty or self-consciously hip. It's not an easy balance, and we don't always get it right. But I think the simple use of courtesy titles  — whether it's "Mr. Bush," "Mrs. Clinton" or "Ms. Rivera, a teacher from Queens"  — injects a note of thoughtfulness and civility into our pages. Amid the daily cacophony, that seems a worthy effort.Tangled PassagesQ. Can you translate this for me?I read The Times only online  — a Times Company retiree, I can't afford a print subscription  — and find such stuff as this nearly daily. Surely the print copy is better! — Jay GoleyA. I agree that the sentence is convoluted to the verge of incomprehensibility. And I was happy to find on checking our archive that in the final edition it had been changed, by the reporter or an editor, to this:Note that we now use three sentences to convey the complex set of ideas that we tried to handle in one sentence originally. This is a favorite theme of mine. In story after story, we subject readers to long, dense, complex sentences. Often they come one after another. I included this note to colleagues in one of our recent in-house critiques:Ted Bernstein, whom I've mentioned before, said simply this: "Generally it speeds reading if there is only one idea to a sentence."I don't hold out much hope of achieving that standard  — and of course Bernstein himself wouldn't try to enforce such a rule literally. But often we can vastly improve our readability if we just reduce the number of ideas in a sentence from, say, six to two.As for the question of "better" copy in the print edition than on the Web site: as I've noted, our Web editors are constantly balancing the need for speed with our insistence on high standards. In fact, this tension isn't new with the Web. In the print paper, too, often a late-breaking story gets a quicker editing job as we rush to put it into the first edition. By the final edition, editors have gone back and tried to make further improvements. It wouldn't serve our readers well to hold an important story out of several editions  — or off the Web for hours  — while we buffed and polished. But we don't want to publish a story that's not ready, either.It's amazing to see how our reporters can put a story together at lightning speed. And it's amazing what some of our copy editors can do to improve a story in 15 minutes. But of course, both reporters and editors can do even more if they have more time.Making Sense of NoneQ. This one drives me crazy. "None of the missing tools were found."  Shouldn't it be none … was?  And in the case of "None of the items are in stock." Shouldn't it be none … is? — Jeff HilleryQ. I realize this gets us into existential territory, but: None are or is? A quick search on your Web site yields the following results:So which is correct?  (And none of the above does NOT constitute a real answer.) — Vaishali PatelQ. Lost-cause department, but:  Won't you please re-fight the battle for "none" as a singular  —  "None is" (as in "not one is")?  Using it as a plural just sounds unkempt.A. When this question popped up for the third time, I realized there was no getting around it.Generations of readers, it seems, learned from their fifth-grade English teachers that "none" is singular, and that they must always write "none is," never "none are." And none of them, it seems, has/have forgotten the lesson.Still, life is sometimes more complicated than our fifth-grade English teachers let on. And grammar is, too. The answer to the "none is/none are" question turns out to be: well, that depends.Here's the usage note from the American Heritage Dictionary, which is in line with most other authorities on this point:Our stylebook, though lacking the impressive references to Dryden, Burke et al., explains further:Garner, too, suggests mentally substituting "not one" and "not any" in the sentence to see which better fits the sense, and using the singular or plural as appropriate.This is far from the only case in which a hard-and-fast grammar rule we were taught in grade school turns out to be less than sacrosanct, or even flat-out wrong. Perhaps I'll return to this theme in a later response.Colloquialisms Can Be TryingQ. I try and bite my tongue every time I hear someone say "try and," but I had to write after reading it in a recent article: "Mr. Rockefeller is up for re-election next year. No opponents have declared their intention totry and unseat him."What does the style guide have to say about "try and" vs. "try to"? — Derek SmithA. Here's a good example of the need to distinguish between colloquial or conversational usage and the more formal, standard English we strive for in our news writing.I think most sources agree that "try and" is colloquial or informal  — "nonstandard," to be more judgmental about it. It's extremely common in speech, though, and I for one would not consider it incorrect in conversation or other informal contexts.But our writers and editors should avoid this and other colloquial expressions in straight news articles. In The Times, colloquialisms should be used only in informal contexts  — perhaps a breezy feature, a column with a conversational tone, or in other places for special effect. It can be surprisingly hard even for careful editors to weed out all such references, though. For most readers, expressions like "try and" are so familiar from speech that they don't jump off the page or jar the ear assomething that must be fixed.An Unprecedented QuestionQ. First, thank you. The current discussion is very interesting, and I admire the evenness of your tone and the thoughtfulness of your answers.My question concerns the use of a pet-peeve word: unprecedented. A favorite editor, discouraging the word's use, once told me there's a precedent for almost everything. I agree, and yet I seem to see it cropping up more and more. The Times isn't as guilty on this score as many other publications, but even in your paper I see Moscow imposing unprecedented restrictions on election observers, an unprecedented federal aviation survey, unprecedented numbers of uninsured patients,and dairy costs at unprecedented levels. And that's just one day!I've had trouble getting reporters and editors in my own newsroom to address this language tic. Or maybe it's just me. What do you think? — Mark Matassa, SeattleA. Mr. Matassa is in good company with this pet peeve. Al Siegal, who literally wrote the book on The Times's style, also discouraged use of this word, for the same reason. Our stylebook elaborates:It may be that since Mr. Siegal's retirement last year, our vigilance on this point has eroded. I'll keep an eye out.The Eternal Numbers QuestionQ.  Please explain the now established use of "to ___ from ___" in expressing changes in numerical values, for example. It's something I've noticed over the last few years, but perhaps not before.  That is not a very easy way to scan the line, at least to my mind, as it is not progressive in time.  Is there some overriding reason to do it this way?After all, the movie is not called "To Eternity From Here."  — George HeibelA. Some of the questions I've received were predictable, but I was surprised to get at least three on this topic  — including one other with the same "To Eternity From Here" line.For readers who haven't noticed, The Times often uses this locution when describing an increase (or decrease): "The average price of a bushel of widgets on the Chicago Widget Exchange rose to $45, from $42." Some readers object to this phrasing, saying that logic and normal usage argue for the reverse: "The average price of widgets rose from $42 to $45."The reason for our practice is to prevent the reader, even momentarily, from mistakenly thinking that we are referring to a range  — that is, thinking that the price of widgets rose by amounts ranging from $42 to $45. I admit it's a fine point, but any clarity we can offer in stories dealing with numbers is an advantage.Here's the relevant entry in our stylebook:Burma or Myanmar?Q. The Times seems to have a policy of adjusting its geographical names in English, to follow the whims of governments, without regard to historical consistency or clarity. Thus, we have often recently read: "Myanmar, formerly Burma"  in news stories. The U.S. State Department says Burma, the BBC says Burma, Aung San Suu Ki says Burma.  It seems only The Times and the Burmese government say Myanmar, and more to the point, all English speakers know the country as Burma. You can be sure that the name of the country has not changed in French or Chinese. Why should the Burmese authorities, who of course can say what they like in Burmese, presume to change it in English?  And even if they so presume, why should The Times cooperate? — Vernon Eagle, BeijingA. There is no single, absolute standard or reference we use to determine when to adopt a new geographic name. Rather, we try to determine whether a new name has reached a level of wide acceptance and recognition across a range of sources, local and international. Recent examples of such changes in our stylebook include Mumbai for Bombay, and Chennai for Madras.The case of Myanmar is especially difficult because of the political background  — the newer name was adopted by the current military junta, one of the most repressive governments in the world. While we are certainly aware of the political context, we would try to avoid using a style decision like this to make, in effect, an editorial statement one way or another. (The Soviet Union, after all, was referred to as such even by those vehemently opposed to the government that adopted the name.)The United States government does indeed continue to use Burma, as do some news organizations. But a wide range of other sources  — including The Associated Press, Webster's New World Dictionary (our standard newsroom dictionary), the Columbia Gazetteer and National Geographic  — all use Myanmar.Words We Love and HateQ. In the past 18 months, two phrases have begun to appear routinely in Times news articles. While William Safire could, and perhaps already has, enlighten us as to the origins of the phrases. I find them to be examples of lazy writing. My foreign friends find them to be incomprehensible. Are they accepted by the gurus of style? — Robert B. HillQ.  Can I offer a personal pet peeve? The use of the word "famously" is becoming increasingly common, despite being either unnecessary or inaccurate in most cases. If something is, in fact, famous, you don't need to mention it. Most of the time, however, it's used to suggest insider knowledge, which is quite the opposite of the word's meaning. I like to count myself as one of The Times's sophisticated readers, but I was not aware of Richard S. Fuld Jr.'s "famously large appetite," mentioned in a Sunday business story. In fact, I had never even heard of Mr. Fuld, let alone his eating habits. Using the term "famously" in this instance seems to imply that I lack a basic level of information about a subject that is common knowledge. — Scott BrownA. Another favorite theme in our in-house critiques is identifying "words we love too much." Sometimes they're old standbys, cliches that journalists have overused for decades. Others are new or faddish expressions that we've latched on to, perhaps in hopes of looking hipper than we are. Sometimes one can trace the arc of such expressions in our archive, from a bare scattering of uses a decade ago to dozens a year now."Famously" is one word that I've singled out as in need of a long rest, for all the reasons Mr. Brown cites. Obviously, my pleas have been largely ignored, but perhaps the admonition from a dedicated reader will carry more weight.I hadn't taken note of the two phrases mentioned by Mr. Hill  — "gain traction" and "on the ground"  — but his point is well taken. Beyond being overused, "on the ground" also carries some political baggage, since President Bush is frequently at pains to cite commanders "on the ground" as he discusses his Iraq strategy. It's fine for us to quote him or others, but there is little need for us to use the phrase ourselves."Gain traction" has a faddish tone, and seems to be cropping up more and more in political coverage. We should ration it strictly.I should note that we very rarely "ban" words or phrases outright. I try to offer guidance, but in the end we depend on the judgment of our writers and editors to make the best choice in context. In fact, this is one of my few basic insights into editing. Learning the rules, complicated as they are, is the easy part; the hard part is knowing when to make exceptions.That said, here is a small sample of other words and phrases that my colleagues and I have identified as overworked and deserving a bit of rest:Omitting Courtesy TitlesQ. I'm curious about The Times's rules on when to use or not to use courtesy titles.  I still see The Times referring to a convicted and executed war criminal and mass murderer as "Mr. Hussein," yet Thomas Jefferson, Diego Velazquez, and other reasonably respected gents from long ago don't get a title.  Is the rule based strictly on how long someone has been dead, or are there other factors at work?  (And is it an urban legend that The Times once referred to the singer of "Paradise by the Dashboard Light" as "Mr. Loaf"?)And, if a related question is permitted, what about British titles of hono(u)r?  Is the Times being a good small-r republican by declining to call the ex-Beatle composer "Sir Paul" and the performer of "Crocodile Rock" "Sir Elton" (or should that be "Sir Reginald")? — Bruce TindallA. I double-checked to make sure this question wasn't a plant, since my friends know that I have strong views on what I refer to as the "Sir Paul" issue.But first, on courtesy titles for the dead. It's not a question of how long someone has been dead, and certainly not a judgment on character. The distinction we try to make is between references to a figure in the news (even if he's dead), and references to a historical figure in a historical context. For the former, we continue to use courtesy titles; for the latter, we generally drop them.It seems silly to refer to "Mr. Washington" or "Mr. Hitler." Those are easy calls. It's a bit trickier with more recent figures, but there too, we would generally drop the courtesy title when describing historical events. So, for example, Kennedy and Reagan would normally get no "Mr." On the other hand, Saddam Hussein is dead but still comes up mostly in daily news stories from Iraq. So we preserve the courtesy title, though presumably one day he too will lose it.The notion that The Times referred to Meat Loaf as "Mr. Loaf" is more or less apocryphal. As my colleague Merrill Perlman explained when she took questions in this forum, our one use of "Mr. Loaf" was as a joke, in a headline for a review of a movie about him. The headline was, "Is He Called Just Plain Meat Or Should It Be Mr. Loaf?"As for Paul McCartney, Elton John and similar cases: we did for a time routinely use their British titles, much to the dismay of some of our music critics. I always thought it sounded a bit odd, and when Tom Jones became "Sir Tom," I thought it was time to review the guidelines.It's not that I begrudge them the honor. But from a reader's perspective, it's jarring when someone who has been well known for years in a particular field is suddenly transformed into "Sir So-and-So."  And such references might contribute to an impression  — however unfair  — of The Times as slightly fusty or out-of-touch.So far, not a word of complaint from Sir Paul, Dame Judi or Lord Lloyd Webber. Here's the relevant passage from our stylebook:Need for ReformQ. Simple question: why on earth do you always use "reform" when what is properly meant is "change." A reform is by definition a change for the better (see the Oxford American Dictionary). Therefore when you write that President Bush is "reforming" something or other, you are endorsing his actions. "Reform" is inherently a prejudicial word and should rarely if ever be found in news columns. — Donald Mintz, Trumansburg, N.Y.A. A very good point. In fact, our stylebook says this:"Reform" is just one of many, many words that can give an unintended slant to an otherwise impartial news account. We try to be wary of it and similarly loaded terms. But "reform" is so ubiquitous, especially in political discourse, that it can be hard to eliminate completely.TransliterationQ. How does The Times decide on how to transliterate a foreign name or city? — Daniel LippmanQ. My question is about how The Times represents languages besides English. What transcriptions does The Times use for languages that don't use a Latin alphabet, like Russian and Arabic? — Alexander N. Reusing, Ann Arbor, Mich.Q. I've sometimes seen corrections of spellings of names of sources from foreign countries where the native language is not written in a Western alphabet. How do you decide which is the correct spelling?  I'm especiallycurious for cases where The New York Times picks one spelling and other newspapers pick another (e.g., al Qaeda vs. al Qaida). — Davida CharneyA.  Rendering of foreign names and terms, particularly from languages that use another alphabet, is a complex area in which I am far from an expert. Fortunately, we have editors on our foreign desk who are familiar with many languages, and I often defer to their judgments.In broad terms, we use standardized and fairly detailed systems for transliterating Russian and Chinese names. In Chinese, for example, we and most others use the Pinyin system, which I believe has largely replaced the older Wade-Giles system. But even here, there are many exceptions, for historical or other reasons.Arabic poses even greater hurdles, in part because pronunciations vary in different parts of the Arab-speaking world. Some of those renderings are decided case by case, and inconsistencies do pop up within and among various news organizations.One more example. Based on advice from a Korean-speaking editor and information from our research staff, I recently made changes in our stylebook rules on handling Korean names, in an effort to bring our usage in line with current practice among most Koreans. But even there, conflicts and inconsistencies persist  — for example, North Korea's official system for rendering names in the Latin alphabet differs from that generally used by South Koreans.Here, as in many areas, we try to take into account both what will be familiar or comprehensible to general readers, and what would seem most precise or correct to experts.A Final WordA. Many thanks to all who have read and participated in this forum all week. For me, it's been both fun and enlightening. The questions have been thoughtful, the chiding generally good-natured (and often deserved).My apologies to those whose questions I didn't have time to cover. Maybe next time.I'll end with a few rapid-fire comments on a handful of questions that I didn't get to during the week  — some of them raised by more than one reader.1. Data  — singular or plural?Our style allows both. It's more often used as singular in the broad sense of "information," more likely as plural in the original sense of "a collection of figures or facts."2. "Like" or "such as"?Our stylebook recommends "like" in this kind of expression: "Big companies like General Motors and Coca-Cola reported strong earnings." The idea is that "such as" sounds a bit stuffy, and indeed it is seldom used that way in conversation. But many readers object to "like" as illogical  — we're not referring to companies "similar to" General Motors and Coca-Cola, but to those very companies, as well as to others like them. I'm on the fence.3. DVD's or DVDs as the plural? M.D.'s or M.D.s?We recently changed our style rule to eliminate the apostrophe in the plural of abbreviations like DVDs. Many readers had objected to the old form, thinking that we didn't know the difference between plural and possessive. In fact, the rationale for the old rule was that in all-capital headlines, such abbreviations were hard to read: DVDS, TVS. But we use very few all-cap headlines these days, and I thought the time was right to change.However, we kept the apostrophe in the plural of abbreviations with periods, like M.D.'s, on the grounds that it just looks odd the other way.4. So, why periods in M.D. but not in DVD?That's more complicated, but here's one answer. Certain abbreviations, especially for terms in technology like (or such as) DVD, PC and PDF, are so widely used without the periods that we would seem out of step to retain the punctuation. In some cases, most people don't even know what the letters actually stand for. (There are also cases  — TV, for example  — where the letters don't actually stand for two separate words, and so don't take periods.)5. Insure? Ensure? What's the difference?Our stylebook reminds us that "ensure" means guarantee or make safe. "Insure" means buy or issue insurance. I suspect, though, that this rule is less than rigorously applied in our pages.Julie Taymor's quirky, puppet-filled production of Mozart's "Zauberflöte" was one of the Met's hottest properties when it was first staged, in 2004, and since then it has done extra duty winning over children in a cut-down version. But now the Met doesn't seem to think much of it. When the production returned to the house on Monday evening, it was with a mostly indifferent cast in a performance more tepid than you would have imagined a "Zauberflöte" could possibly be.The lethargy began with the overture: Kirill Petrenko led a performance almost entirely stripped of magic, with rushed tempos taken for zestiness, and weightiness taken for grandeur. Only the brass passages in the final bars, given a textured, interestingly balanced reading, promised that freshness might follow, but that promise proved hollow. Much of the time Mr. Petrenko had the orchestra hold back to avoid covering underpowered singing, and that simply exacerbated the problem.You know you're in trouble when the Three Ladies have trouble creating a cohesive ensemble, and when the Tamino, here Eric Cutler, sounds nasal and constricted in "Das Bildnis ist bezaubernd schön." Mr. Cutler did warm to the role eventually, but even at his best he was undercut by Ms. Taymor's visual imagery: His face paint and long black wig made him look like an escapee from the City Opera's production of "The Mikado."Stéphane Degout sang Papageno with a fresh rusticity. But Anna-Kristiina Kaappola's Queen of the Night sounded disconcertingly calm and undramatic in "O zittre nicht," even in the aria's high D and F, which here were needlepoint squeaks. Ms. Kaappola, who was making her house debut, was decidedly more persuasive in the Queen's second-act aria, "Der Hölle Rache," where those same top notes sounded more firmly supported.Still, none of these singers were  in the same league as Diana Damrau, whose Pamina had everything: elegance, innocence and a finely nuanced sound that lighted up the stage. Her "Ach ich fühl's" was a picture of intensity, one of the few persuasively emotional performances of the evening. (Ms. Damrau, who also has the Queen of the Night in her repertory, switches to that role on Nov. 20.)The cast also included Reinhard Hagen, who was unable to summon the low-register heft necessary in a great Sarastro, and Dietmar Kerschbaum, whose Monostatos was hampered by Ms. Taymor's odd costuming: mainly, a fat suit and a face mask that seemed a cross between Hannibal Lecter and a B-movie space alien.The space alien motif seems to have gone largely unnoticed in discussions of Ms. Taymor's multicultural interests and their influence on the costumes and puppetry here. But the white masks alternately carried and worn by the Three Ladies, atop their heads rather than over their faces, look a lot like the drawings that usually accompany alien-abduction stories (with a nod to Edvard Munch's "Scream"). And George Tsypin's high-tech, rectangular, revolving sets will look familiar to anyone who has spent too much time watching sci-fi. It's a long way from the Masonic rituals and symbols Mozart actually enshrined here.
