LONDONUNION CHAPEL, in the Islington neighborhood of North London, is a congregational  church that doubles as a concert hall. Candles flickered in the balconies, and a round stained-glass window was illuminated over the stage when Kate Nash headlined a benefit concert there on Nov. 26. Seated at a keyboard in a brightly patterned vintage dress, with a drape hiding her legs, Ms. Nash looked over pews full of fans. With a nervous giggle she introduced one of the songs from "Made of Bricks," a platinum album in Britain that is due for American release this week. "This song is weird for a church, but I've been told it's fine," she said, adding that her "mum"  had also said it was O.K.Then she proceeded to sing a plaintive, pointed ballad describing someone with a slang term for part of the male anatomy. That mixture of sweetness and blunt candor is the core of Ms. Nash's charm. "I never do anything just to be crude or in your face," she said in an interview. "It was just a phrase that I felt was really normal, teenage. But I wasn't trying to be shocking."Ms. Nash, 20, is a nice girl who lives with her parents (in the outer London borough of Harrow) and listens to her mum. "My mum's got morals and principles, and I've been brought up with those ideas and beliefs," she said. Her mum, she added, "doesn't like me to swear in the house."With 21st-century pop finesse, Ms. Nash managed to start a career by recording songs into her home computer and making some fortunate MySpace links. Less than two years after she quit a job as a fast-food waitress, she was atop the British pop charts. Her New York City show on Wednesday night at the Bowery Ballroom is sold out.Ms. Nash is part of a steady stream of young English female songwriters who have lately become MySpace and YouTube darlings. Before Ms. Nash were Lily Allen (who endorsed her early) and Amy Winehouse; in her wake is the folky teenage songwriter Adele. All of them attended the BRIT  School, the free performing arts school in London supported by the British Record Industry Trust.Ms. Nash chatted in the warren of dressing rooms backstage at the venerable Royal Albert Hall on a September evening when she was appearing at another benefit concert. The girls of a high-school choir, also on the bill, gawked when they caught sight of her and tittered excitedly after she passed. A few years earlier she might have been one of them herself. "I still feel a bit childish to be here," she said in her middle-class, Cockney-tinged accent. "Like, my songs are a bit stupid for the Royal Albert Hall."Ms. Nash wrote the songs on "Made of Bricks" as a teenager, and in them she captures adolescent ups and downs — peer pressure, awkward courting, lust, body-image qualms, lovers' quarrels — from the inside. Yet she already has enough adult perspective to see both sides of a spat. Her biggest hit and best song so far, "Foundations," details the escalation of a couple's bickering on a bad night out. First the boyfriend humiliates her in public; then the girlfriend sings, "I'll use that voice that you find annoying" and starts insulting him. As the music swells optimistically, with a string section swirling behind Ms. Nash's keyboards, the couple get drunker and angrier. "I was a bit scared, but it gives me thrills to wind you up," she sings. And in the chorus she  realizes, "I know that I should let go, but I can't." The song is bright, peppy and mercilessly perceptive.Ms. Nash acknowledged some experience behind her songs. "I've had a few, like, rubbish guys," she said. "For a while they're fine. And they amuse, and they kind of satisfy. Which is really funny. Like I was kind of up for being treated not that well and being not called and not knowing what's going on, and is this something or is it not, and being with somebody who isn't that great anyway. And then it came to the end, and I was like: 'Wow, I'm done now. I'm done with this.' "While that sounds like what countless young women go through, few have transformed it so neatly into pop.Ms. Nash got serious about songwriting after one miserable day. She had learned to play piano and guitar as a child and had done some Irish dancing and played traditional Irish instruments like tin whistle and the bodhran; her mother is Irish, her father English.At the BRIT School, she intended to become an actress. (Drama training, she said, taught her some of the powers of observation she brings to her songs.) But after auditioning for the Bristol Old Vic Theater  School, she was turned down. And the day the rejection letter arrived, she fell down a flight of stairs and broke her foot. It immobilized her for three weeks.That gave her time to think, and to play with an electric guitar her parents gave her in sympathy. She made a decision, she said: "As soon as my leg's better, I'm booking a gig and doing a gig." She asked around Harrow for musicians, found some band members who are still with her and got her first paying gig in April 2005 at a Harrow club: "30 quid," she recalled, about $60.  It was enough to convince her to try it full time. Living with her parents, she didn't have to worry about paying rent."I didn't know anything about the industry," she said. "I just knew I wanted to write songs and perform them and record an album."First came another typical songwriter's steppingstone: a page on the social networking site MySpace, with some homemade recordings. Ms. Nash sent a message to Ms. Allen, whose own pop success had been stoked by her MySpace presence (including a frank, steadily updated blog). Ms. Allen paid attention to the message, listened to the songs and posted a prominent link, saying: "Check out Kate Nash, she's well good I promise." Her fans, thousands of them, clicked the link and liked what they heard.Soon enough the British press would be calling Ms. Nash the next Lily Allen — as either praise or putdown — since both are women, Londoners, songwriters, brunettes and chroniclers of iffy romance. But while Ms. Allen is fond of reggae and R&B, many of Ms. Nash's songs show a different and obvious major influence: the Russian-born New York songwriter Regina Spektor, whose classical-tinged piano vamps rise and accelerate as the lyrics grow more insistent and wild-eyed. Ms. Nash freely admits her admiration. When she discovered Ms. Spektor's music, she said, she thought it was "the best thing I'd ever heard."Through Ms. Allen's recommendation and other music grapevines Ms. Nash found a rapidly growing audience. Fans came to shows, posted their own links and pestered Ms. Nash to release something. She did: an independent-label single, "Caroline's a Victim," with electronic beats from the entry-level Apple program GarageBand. Its video showed Ms. Nash, playing multiple instruments, serenading a girl in her bedroom at her computer.The single was released in February, and in short order Ms. Nash had a major-label contract and was working with the producer Paul Epworth, known for producing rock bands like Bloc Party and the Futureheads. "Foundations" was released as a single in June, and though BBC Radio One didn't push it, the song zoomed to No. 2 on the sales charts. By summer Ms. Nash was playing for huge festival crowds, and when "Made of Bricks" was released in August, the album went to No. 1.The music on "Made of Bricks" revolves mostly around Ms. Nash's keyboards, meshed with samples or backed up by her band. The songs are full of tentative and misplaced love, like "We Get On," in which, over a jovial piano vamp, she admits to having a crush on a guy just before he chooses "that tramp" instead. Some songs, like "Mariella," end up uncomfortably close to Ms. Spektor. But Ms. Nash can tell stories with the music alone.In "Merry Happy" she bids farewell to a boyfriend who "didn't want to stick around" and decides "I can be alone." The last two minutes of the five-minute song are wordless, as Ms. Nash stacks up vocal overdubs into a buoyant "doo-doo-doo" pop chorale, then slowly dismantles it, ending up alone.She has been writing songs in her family's small front room: a converted garage with "a sofa and a TV and all the boxed sets of 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer,' " she said. "I love Buffy."It has grown more crowded with her computer, keyboards and guitars. "If I'm in the mood," she said, "I'll just go in there, and I'll have three hours of just knocking stuff out or playing on GarageBand."But recently her career has been demanding longer hours away from home, keeping her from making music there. "If I come in, it's usually late, and I can't do that," she said. "My mum'll be, like, 'Shut up!' "Women squealed as the headliner took the stage at S.O.B.'s late on Friday night, elegant in a dark suit with a yellow necktie. He started an anthemic ballad, and within moments, the audience was joyfully singing along and waving its arms overhead. The pop star onstage was Gossaye Tesfaye, a 32-year-old songwriter from Ethiopia, and he was singing love songs in the Amharic language. The crowd that filled the dance floor at 1 a.m. must have made up a considerable fraction of the 2,500 Ethiopians that the last census counted as living in New York City.Mr. Tesfaye, who was born in Addis Ababa, plays modern pop that is well aware of the world outside Ethiopia. The song that started his set could almost have been an American R&B ballad but for its vocals, and he followed it with a song that rode the brisk Afro-Latin beat of Congolese soukous. On his albums Mr. Tesfaye also dips into reggae and Nigerian Afrobeat. His band used Western instruments: bass, trap drums, keyboard, saxophone.But the melodies of Mr. Tesfaye's songs were distinctively Ethiopian. They riffled up and down through pentatonic (five-note) scales, and when he sang sustained notes, they took on North African, Arabic-flavored quavers. Mr. Tesfaye has a high, sweet tenor voice that can break into a rich falsetto or add a hint of rasp; his tone is clear and genial, never pushy but never shy.As the set progressed, the band's rhythms made their way back toward Ethiopia. One song moved to a brusquely swinging modal funk vamp that, to a Western ear, sounded something like Louisiana zydeco. Other tunes built galloping six-beat grooves that stirred up the dance floor. As the music dug into its homeland beats, Mr. Tesfaye tossed phrases back and forth with his saxophonist and with an audience that was eager to sing along or clap the complexities of those six-beat rhythms. Women climbed onstage to dance with him and pose for cellphone photographs; one plastered paper money on his forehead. What had started out looking like a typical pop event had turned into something unmistakably African.Leonard B. Meyer, a pioneering musicologist whose 1956 book, "Emotion and Meaning in Music," remains one of the most significant scholarly works in the field of music cognition, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89.His death was confirmed by his daughter Carlin Meyer."Emotion and Meaning in Music," adapted from his doctoral dissertation at the University of Chicago, placed Mr. Meyer at the forefront of the emerging field that connects music theory and aesthetics to psychology and neuroscience. In the book, considered his most important, Mr. Meyer sought links between emotional responses and musical patterns, especially those in which an expectation is built up and then delayed or diverted — for example, the "deceptive cadence," a chord progression figuring prominently in Mozart's compositions in which the dominant chord (based on the fifth note of the scale in question) resolves in an unexpected way rather than returning to the key's "home" chord, or tonic.Mr. Meyer was among the first scholars to explore the relationship between game theory and music composition, and suggested that the value of a musical work was in direct correlation to how well the complexity of the work engaged the listener. For instance, works in which the audience's every expectation was met were found to be ultimately unsatisfying. So, too, were works in which no expectations were met.Fifty years later, "Emotion and Meaning in Music" remains in print and has sold more than 60,000 copies. Mr. Meyer expanded on his early ideas in several books, including "The Rhythmic Structure of Music" (1960), with Grosvenor Cooper; "Music, the Arts and Ideas: Patterns and Predictions in 20th-Century Culture" (1967); "Explaining Music: Essays and Explanations" (1973); "Style and Music: Theory, History and Ideology" (1989), in which he traced a cognitive history of 19th-century music; and "Spheres of Music: A Gathering of Essays" (2000).Born in New York City and reared nearby in Westchester County, Mr. Meyer learned Shakespeare sonnets from his father at a young age and honed a sense of theatricality through  family readings of plays by George Bernard Shaw and Oscar Wilde. He  studied at Bard College before enlisting in the Army in World War II, during which he earned a Bronze Star for service in Normandy and at the Battle of the Bulge.After the war, he transferred to Columbia University, where he received a bachelor's in philosophy and a master's in music. While at Columbia, he studied composition with Stefan Wolpe, who, as Mr. Meyer liked to recount, told him he could be "the Gossec of your era" — referring to a famously minor 18th-century Belgian composer — and later with Otto Luening and Aaron Copland. It was Copland, Mr. Meyer said, who, spying his former student in a deli one day, announced that there might be a job at the University of Chicago.In 1946, Mr. Meyer accepted that position in the department of music, where he earned a Ph.D. in history of culture, taught for 29 years and was a part of Saul Bellow's circle. In 1975, Mr. Meyer was named Benjamin Franklin professor of music and humanities at the University of Pennsylvania. He was also a fellow of the Center for Advanced Studies at Wesleyan University, received a Guggenheim Fellowship and was elected into the American Academy of Arts and Letters. In October 2006, he was the subject of a symposium organized at Northwestern University by Robert O. Gjerdingen, a former student, in honor of the 50th anniversary of "Emotion and Meaning in Music."In addition to his daughter Carlin Meyer of New York, he is survived by his daughters Muffie Meyer, also of New York, and Erica Meyer of Chicago; two granddaughters; and his first wife, Lee Meyer of Chicago. His second wife, Janet Levy, died in 2004.Mr. Meyer liked to entertain friends and family by singing Gilbert and Sullivan operettas and quoting Shakespeare. He requested that his tombstone be engraved with Hamlet's dying words: "The rest is silence."CLASSICALFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.Opera'UN BALLO IN MASCHERA' (Saturday) Piero Faggione's production of this Verdi classic exploits the size and resources of the Met for all they are worth. Saturday's matinee will retain the opening-night cast, so let's hope that Salvatore Licitra as Riccardo is now in good tenorial health, and that Stephanie Blythe (Ulrica) and Dmitri Hvorostovsky (Renato) sound as good as they did a few weeks ago. Gianandrea Noseda conducts. At 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Bernard Holland)★ 'HANSEL AND GRETEL' (Friday and Tuesday) Humperdinck's richly Wagnerian yet tune-filled "Hansel and Gretel" has come to the Met as family fare — a dark, surreal, sometimes baffling yet intriguing new production by Richard Jones. The opera is performed in English translation and, with intermission, clocks in at just over two hours. Severe hunger is Mr. Jones's  theme. All three acts are set in strange kitchens: the drab 1950s kitchen of Hansel and Gretel's impoverished family; an Expressionistic kitchen-dining room with leafy wallpaper to symbolize the forest where the siblings become lost; an industrial-size, stainless-steel kitchen where the Witch bakes her child victims into gingerbread. The mezzo-soprano Alice Coote and the soprano Christine Schäfer are charming as Hansel and Gretel, though their English diction is hopeless. The tenor Philip Langridge makes a daffy and glutenous Witch. Vladimir Jurowski conducts a resonant and radiant performance. Friday at 1 p.m., Tuesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $99 tickets remaining for Friday; $15 to $375 on Tuesday. (Anthony Tommasini)★ 'MACBETH' (Saturday and Wednesday) In his Met debut the English director Adrian Noble has created a stylistically eclectic, grimly effective and, at times, intriguingly playful new production of Verdi's breakthrough early masterpiece, last seen at the house in 1988. Introduced in October, this modern-dress staging blends contemporary and melodramatic touches: The chorus of witches is portrayed as a coven of bag ladies in frumpy coats with bulging handbags. James Levine's exciting and insightful conducting is the highlight of the production. New artists take over the leading roles when the production returns this weekend: The baritone Lado Ataneli is Macbeth,  and the soprano Andrea Gruber is Lady Macbeth. The excellent bass John Relyea returns as Banquo. Maria Guleghina sings Lady Macbeth on Wednesday. Saturday and Wednesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $150 to $220 on Saturday; $65 to $175 on Wednesday. (Tommasini)★ 'DIE WALKÜRE' (Monday) The big news of the revival of Wagner's "Walküre" is the return to the Met of the conductor Lorin Maazel after a nearly 45-year absence. Yes, 45. His only previous work with the company consisted of 16 performances during the 1962-63 season. Mr. Maazel will be collaborating with a very solid cast, led by the soprano Lisa Gasteen as Brünnhilde, the bass James Morris as Wotan, the mezzo-soprano Stephanie Blythe as Fricka, the soprano Adrianne Pieczonka as Sieglinde and the tenor Clifton Forbis as Siegmund. Monday at 6:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $175. (Tommasini)Classical Music★ BARGEMUSIC (Friday, Saturday and Sunday) This floating concert hall on the Brooklyn side of the East River starts the year with one of its adventurous "Here and Now"  programs, with Curtis Macomber, a violinist, and Steven Beck, a pianist, playing Elliott Carter's Duo (1974), Charles Wuorinen's Capriccio (1981) and Lou Harrison's "Grand Duo" (1988). On Saturday and Sunday Mr. Beck, along with Mark Peskanov, a violinist, and Raman Ramakrishnan, a cellist, plays trios by Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+ on Friday only. (Allan Kozinn)CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Thursday) String sextets, with their extra viola and cello lines, address the top-heavy balance of the more popular quartet format and expand the textural and contrapuntal possibilities considerably. The Chamber Music Society offers two of the most beautiful examples: Brahms's Sextet in G (Op. 36)  and Schoenberg's early "Verklärte Nacht" (Op. 4). At 8 p.m., Kaplan Penthouse, 165 West 65th Street, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; sold out. (Kozinn)LARK CHAMBER ARTISTS (Thursday) After a  renovation of the Kaufman Center and Merkin Concert Hall, this popular space for music reopens next week. The first general-admission concert of its new era comes on Thursday, when the Lark Quartet, now a presenting organization called the Lark Chamber Artists, collaborates with the pianist Gary Graffman, the violist Larry Dutton, the flutist Susan Glaser and the adventurous Ethos Percussion Group. They are offering an eclectic program of works by Brahms, Jennifer Higdon, John Adams and Giovanni Sollima, as well as some Congolese and Middle Eastern pieces, heavy on the percussion. At 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330, kaufman-center.org; $20.(Tommasini)* ROBERT LEVIN AND CLAUDE FRANK (Thursday) Though the concept behind the Morgan Library & Museum's "Double Take" series may seem rather intellectual, Thursday night's program could be quite fascinating. The audience will have a chance to hear contrasting readings of a major composition, Schubert's Piano Sonata in B flat, his last work in the genre. First the noted scholar and dynamic pianist Robert Levin will play the piece on a Graf fortepiano that dates from Schubert's lifetime, and then the renowned Claude Frank will play it on a modern concert grand. At 7:30 p.m., Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org; $35; $25 for members. (Tommasini)NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Friday and Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday) The Philharmonic's busy week ahead begins on Friday morning with a sold-out concert of favorites: Mendelssohn's "Midsummer Night's Dream" Overture and Violin Concerto (with Viviane Hagner), Mozart's Second Horn Concerto (with Philip Myers) and Elgar's "Enigma" Variations. The same players and program move out to the Tilles Center on Long Island on Saturday night. On Tuesday Barbara Cook will go for her third sold-out 80th-birthday celebration within a few months. The Philharmonic then begins a new program of its subscription series on Thursday, with repeat performances next weekend. The music is by Berlioz and Prokofiev, with the mezzo-soprano Susan Graham taking on Berlioz's high-voltage "Mort de Cléopâtre." Lorin Maazel conducts all these concerts except Ms. Cook's. Friday at 11 a.m., Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $29 to $119. Saturday at 8 p.m., Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, C. W. Post campus of Long Island University, Brookville, N.Y., (516) 299-3100, tillescenter.org; $52 to $110.(Holland)SIA"Some People Have Real Problems"(Monkey Puzzle/Hear Music)Sia comes out of the shadows on her fourth studio album, "Some People Have Real Problems." Sia Furler is a singer and songwriter who was born in Australia and works in London; between making her own albums she has sung and toured with the down-tempo band Zero 7. Her 2003 album, "Colour the Small One," just about perfected a hushed, moody approach, as Sia sang about regrets in a breathy voice amid slow-motion drumbeats and subtle electronic burbles.Her new album dispels the haze. Most of the instruments — from her band, often augmented by strings and horns — are hand-played, not synthetic. The songs can be extroverted, even feisty, like "The Girl You Lost to Cocaine," a soul stomp in which she ditches a guy she's no longer willing to maintain, or the sassy pop of "Buttons," in which she warns her lover that she's "losing my marbles." And on this album Sia isn't whispering. She often opens up her voice like an R&B singer, letting herself belt as songs build.The results are mixed. Sia can push her tart voice through slurs, slides and convoluted shifts of texture. Yet she has always been plagued by comparisons, and the new album still invites them: Sheryl Crow in the heartbroken hymn "You Have Been Loved," Alicia Keys in the soul-rooted "Day Too Soon," Nelly Furtado amid the modal groove of "Playground," Sarah McLachlan turning into Fiona Apple in the melancholy-to-desperate ballad "Beautiful Calm Driving." That's a measure of Sia's vocal flexibility, but all the mimicry can be distracting. With her melodic skill, her insight into how love can fray and fall apart, and her abundant technique and eccentricities, Sia is still just learning to sound like herself. JON PARELES MARAH"Angels of Destruction!" (Yep Roc)A rock tour becomes a pilgrimage — "passin' through this wilderness, searchin' for our home" — or possibly vice versa on Marah's latest album, "Angels of Destruction!" Both a beefy, bluesy, rock-and-soul bar band and a hand-clapping, guitar-strumming folk-rock band are at the core of Marah, which formed in Philadelphia in the early 1990s and resettled in Brooklyn. Although Marah got started in the heyday of grunge, the band's two songwriters, singers and guitarists, the brothers Dave and Serge Bielanko, reach back to the same roots as Bruce Springsteen does. At times Marah can sound like Elvis Costello leading the E Street Band.Like their predecessors the Bielanko brothers have far more to say than most bar bands. They pour out words and ideas, and it has taken them some time to keep their verbiage from crowding the songs. On "Angels of Destruction!" they have found the balance. The words are aligned within melodies and hooks, whether it's the folk-rock tango of "Angels on a Passing Train" or the driven eighth-note pounding of "Old Time Tickin' Away.""Angels of Destruction!" worries about apocalypse and redemption. It also tells tales from the band's perpetual travels — particularly in Spain, where it has a strong following — and from its New York City home, where "We come up from the subway/Like we're freed out of Hell." Any hint of pretension dissolves in Marah's music, as the Bielanko brothers' raspy, growly vocals ride roadhouse grooves. In Rolling Stonesy stomps and skiffle bounces, easygoing vaudeville shuffles and driving rockabilly boogies the songs make allegorical visions sound like barroom banter. JON PARELES  FRANK KIMBROUGH"Air" (Palmetto)Frank Kimbrough has a great deal of experience playing solo piano; in the liner notes to his latest release he recalls a five-year stretch early in his career when the format sustained him. Yet somehow "Air" is his first solo album. Fittingly, rewardingly, it's a mature and personal reflection.Mr. Kimbrough divides his attentions here between his own tuneful work and a handful of semi-standards by Thelonious Monk, Duke Ellington and Paul Motian. (That list is instructive, as is the album's dedication to the pianists Andrew Hill and Shirley Horn.) He approaches each theme with generosity and composure; he's more interested in lurking around a melody than in figure-skating over a harmony. Despite his percussive touch, he creates a sense of flow by letting chords chime, overlap and decay.The title track, obviously named after the most ethereal of elements, captures this feeling best. Mr. Kimbrough is ultimately more engaging, though, on material with some root-level relationship to the blues. He gets frisky on just a couple of originals, the stridelike "Ca'lina" and a modal waltz called "The Spins," and imbues the rest of the album with a quietly rhapsodic tone. His readings of Monk's "Coming On the Hudson" and "Jackie-ing," both resplendent in tensions, hint at an elusive mastery.The album's chief distraction, for some listeners, will be Mr. Kimbrough's flashes of deference to Mr. Hill, Paul Bley and even Keith Jarrett, who would surely hear some of himself in this version of an older original called "Quickening." But these moments unfold with an appealing spirit of candor. Apparently Mr. Kimbrough would be the first to admit he didn't conjure his style, so to speak, out of thin air.NATE CHINEN RIVERS CUOMO"Alone: The Home Recordings of Rivers Cuomo"(Geffen)The title of "Alone: The Home Recordings" is both an excuse and a boast from Weezer's main songwriter, Rivers Cuomo. The tracks are generally homemade and crude sounding, without the gleam that Weezer would have brought to them. The point of pride is that from guitar licks to layered vocal harmonies, Mr. Cuomo did them all on nearly every song.It's an album, by and large, of nerdy love songs, and it's about more than how the music sounds. "Alone" is his annotated sketchbook and a chronicle of one songwriter's ever-changing notions of what he has been trying to do, from high-flown concepts to what he calls "straightforward pop."It also reflects on his love life. The album parades songwriting influences as obvious as Paul McCartney — whose spirit is in "Wanda (You're My Only Love)," a song rejected from the soundtrack of the 1995 film "Angus" — and as unlikely as hip-hop, with a version of an Ice Cube song.For Weezer's dedicated fans, who have collected countless demos that the band and Mr. Cuomo have posted online through the years, the treat of "Alone" is five songs recorded in 1994-95 for an album Weezer abandoned.That album, "Songs From the Black Hole," would have been the band's second, and Mr. Cuomo had plotted a rock musical that equated Weezer's newfound rock-star status with a voyage into outer space, exuberant and ambivalent: "Up to the stars we go/And leave behind everything I used to know." The newly unveiled songs veer between pop-rock and quasi-opera, with multiple characters, polyphonic vocals and improbable interludes.A full album of them would likely have dumbfounded fans expecting a follow-up to smiley singles like "Buddy Holly," the one demo on "Alone" from a song Weezer released. That demo is slower, more distorted and less dynamic than the studio hit, but the musical structure is already complete.Like many another pop songwriter, Mr. Cuomo cherishes melody and obsesses over song form. "Alone" parallels Weezer's albums by moving toward more conventional forms and more generic lyrics as it approaches the present (although Mr. Cuomo promises an "epic, six-minute, symphonic type of art song" on Weezer's sixth album, due this year). One thing hasn't changed. Even when Mr. Cuomo allows himself lines like "I was made for loving you," music and words are still charged with longing. JON PARELES ClassicalBernard HollandHere's the way to settle an argument: Do we play Schubert's famous B flat Piano Sonata on an old piano or on a new one? Go to the Morgan Library on Thursday and hear the piece on both. ROBERT LEVIN will play it on the fortepiano, CLAUDE FRANK on the modern grand.The fortepiano lobby argues this way: Reconstructing Schubert's piano will give you the sounds Schubert expected to hear in the 1820s. The fortepiano makes less noise than a Steinway, but it's clearer. The colors vary from one part of the keyboard to another. Often you can do subtler things, with touch and with the foot pedals.The up-to-date contingent begs to differ: We live in 2008. The modern piano is our voice. The sound is smoother, there is more power, the mechanism is subtler. We can't go back. The significance of fortepiano sound is lost to us. To make 1820s Schubert authentic, you would have to have 1820s audiences listening to it, with ears accustomed to a quieter world — one without cars, jackhammers and elevator music. Music lives; archaeology doesn't.As in most interesting arguments, each side of the issue is both right and wrong, in its own way. Decide for yourselves. 7:30 p.m., Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org; $35, $25 for members.I HAVE preached to my 17-year-old son that a person's true character is revealed by his actions when he thinks there's no chance of being rewarded for them or little danger of getting caught. I myself have failed this litmus test.I cheated on a final exam in college. It was spring semester of my junior year, the early '70s, at what was then Rider College. I was teetering between a B and a C in "Introduction to Music," and the exam would determine my final grade.Music was never my forte. I had never studied an instrument and had had minimal exposure to classical music. But as a secondary education major, I needed two fine arts electives. I had chosen music as one of them. At two credits, how hard could it be?I thought I could hold my own on the test until just before it began, when the professor announced that he would play a series of musical passages on a tape recorder for 15 minutes. We were to identify the instrument we heard in each selection.We were crowded into that classroom like penguins on an ice floe, so it was an effort to keep my eyes focused on my own desk. I think the music was a Mozart symphony, something by Tchaikovsky and a piece by John Philip Sousa. During one selection, my eyes strayed to the paper of the student on my right. I had guessed the instrument to be a violin; my neighbor had written viola. He had to be right — almost anyone would know more about music than I did. I changed my answer.A few days later, perusing the answers to the exam and the final grades posted on the professor's office door, I understood the meaning of poetic justice. The instrument had been a violin. That one answer had dropped my exam grade to a C, which meant a C for the course.I told my son this story following my lecture on character. I don't kid myself that my experience was enough to deter him from cheating, but I figure that even an anecdote from "back in the day," as he calls his parents' early years, can't hurt.Having grown up with Turnitin, an online tool that enables teachers to determine whether a paper has been plagiarized, he's aware that educators are on the lookout for cheating. His English teacher has students run the program themselves and submit the results along with each assignment.But I can't imagine the temptations that await — with all those term papers to write — when he sets foot on a college campus, and I won't be there to offer my erudite life lessons whenever one pops into my head.I expected that he might dismiss my confession with, "But, Mom, everyone cheats." Or he might have argued that students today are under a lot of pressure to get into the best schools. (He knows better than to try that argument. I've never pressured him to do more than just try his best.) I would have a harder time responding to the argument that everyone cheats, since by all accounts cheating has reached new heights since I was in school. We had no scandals (that I knew of, anyway) like the one last May involving Duke business students who collaborated on a take-home test, in violation of the university's honor code. That's just one example. Do an Internet search on word pairs like "students + cheating" if you have a few hours to kill. Who could have dreamed, at the dawn of the Internet, that whole companies would spring up one day selling term papers online?My son could also argue that the real lesson of my own story was "trust your instincts" or "you get what you deserve." I'm afraid his actual response — that it was only one answer and no big deal ("But no, Mom, I don't cheat") — reflects the opinion of many of his generation. Of course, I told myself the same lie when I cheated.I wonder what punishment I would have received had I been caught. Would the professor have given me a failing grade on the exam or for the course? Or would he simply have announced that students were to keep their eyes on their own papers, as I did several times when I was a junior high school teacher.The College of New Jersey is representative of how policies on cheating have evolved in the age of copy-and-paste. A friend who teaches there said freshmen sit through a presentation on academic integrity that contains questions on what constitutes cheating and lays out the answers. In some cases, she said, there's a thin line between right and wrong. Students are also given examples of penalties imposed.The college Web site lists 18 examples of academic dishonesty, like stealing an exam (from a professor's desk, perhaps, or in some elaborate plot à la "The Perfect Score") or submitting an assignment that contains falsified data. Under the heading "unintentional violations" (like forgetting to enclose another author's words in quotation marks), penalties range from allowing students to redo the work to giving them a failing grade. For "intentional violations" (like outright plagiarism), the extreme is expulsion.Codes that define honorable behavior go back to the 1700s — the College of William and Mary in Virginia has what is believed to be the first. But they have become common policy. At Hillsdale College, in Michigan, for example, all entering freshmen must now sign an honor code. Students at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, must sign a pledge on all graded academic work signifying they have received no "unauthorized" help. At Haverford College, in Pennsylvania, students are called on to report their own breaches of academic integrity as well as to confront others who violate the code.Yet survey after survey continues to show that students have a fuzzy understanding of what constitutes cheating.Perhaps I'm quixotic, but I hope my son gets my point about ethics. Cheating is cheating, I tell him, no matter how small — sounding, I fear, like a character from Dr. Seuss.Three decades later, it is a big deal. My transgression comes to mind unbidden, now that I am an adult, testament to how a split second can cast a long shadow. The guilt remains long after I tossed out my bell bottoms. That's the ultimate cautionary tale, and punishment.
