BEIJINGAS she would anywhere in the world, Karen O of the arty New York rock band the Yeah Yeah Yeahs strode onto a festival stage here last month in costume, looking like a wild, futuristic harlequin in her cape of silver wings and blue-and-green striped tights. Shouting to 10,000 mud-soaked fans who shouted her lyrics right back at her, she thanked them in gasps of Mandarin: "Xie xie ni!"A couple of days earlier the Brooklyn rapper Talib Kweli was at a gleaming new club across town. And last Sunday, Linkin Park, a group of rap-rock titans with worldwide sales of 45 million, played in Shanghai to a sold-out stadium crowd of 25,000.They are among the latest in a growing tide of Western acts hoping to crack the vast new entertainment market of China. Once largely closed to foreign music, the country has gradually loosened restrictions and — at a time when record sales in the West continue to plunge, and new sources of revenue have become essential — emerged as a crucial territory on pop's global map."China is on the tip of everybody's tongue," said Peter Grosslight, worldwide head of music for the William Morris Agency. "There's 1.3 billion people there. It's becoming a much wealthier place. How can we ignore that?"For the Western music industry China is a mix of new challenges and familiar frustrations, with rampant piracy of CDs and a minimal touring infrastructure. And many services taken for granted elsewhere, like the collection and distribution of recording royalties, are not fully established. But despite these obstacles, the broad commercial potential makes the country an irresistible draw, with money to be made from live shows, merchandise and  technologies like cellphone ring tones. Five years ago a concert by Kenny G was big news. Now Chinese cities frequently turn up on the touring itineraries for a range of acts; this year Beyoncé, Eric Clapton, Nine Inch Nails, Avril Lavigne and Sonic Youth have all played in China, along with underground rock bands that travel by train through a network of sweaty clubs in second-tier cities.Linkin Park has already toured in Southeast Asia, but the group was  looking at its first concert in China as a particularly lucrative opportunity. "This one show could break the band wide open in a brand-new frontier," said Michael Arfin, Linkin Park's booking agent.The concert grossed $750,000, Mr. Arfin said. On a per-ticket basis that is roughly equivalent to the band's take on recent American tours.For musicians the thrill of playing to crowds who may be seeing their first foreign band can be intoxicating. When the Yeah Yeah Yeahs played the Modern Sky Festival, a three-day event at Haidian Park on the west side of Beijing, the fans waited in reverential silence between songs but erupted once the music kicked in, with fists in the air and young women screaming in the front."It was like nothing we've done before," Karen O said afterward. "From the very beginning they were hungry for us."But the bulk of that rapidly urbanizing, discretionary-income-wielding audience might not be terribly hungry for foreign music. Well-scrubbed pop singers from Taiwan and Hong Kong dominate the airwaves and the popular imagination, with relatively little attention paid to rock.Rock 'n' roll has had a short and shaky history in China. After an initial flourish in the 1980s it went underground in the aftermath of the Tiananmen Square massacre of 1989. For much of the '90s the only Western rock to reach Chinese ears came in the form of remaindered CDs from overseas distributors, and musicians were frustrated to find that their music faced too many cultural barriers to take root."There was ample idealism then, but we hit the rocks pretty quick," said Kaiser Kuo, a  founding member of Tang Dynasty, one of the biggest Chinese rock bands of the '90s. "We realized that we were doomed to life on the margins."Chinese rock got a second life with the arrival of the Internet, which flooded the country's youth with new music. A small but vibrant scene developed, with sometimes startlingly up-to-date reference points. This year two Chinese bands traveled to the South by Southwest festival in Austin, Tex.: Rebuilding the Rights of Statues, a ringer for the angular post-punk of Gang of Four, and Lonely China Day, which borrows from the cinematic grandeur of Sigur Ros. Of the 120 bands at Modern Sky, all but 10 or so were Chinese.To capitalize on this emerging market, the international touring and record industries have in recent years established beachheads in China. William Morris opened a Shanghai office in 2004. This year Ticketmaster bought a majority stake in Emma Entertainment, a Chinese promoter and ticketing service that presented the Linkin Park show.What works in China, however, can sometimes conflict with the larger goals of Western businesses. Linkin Park is among the biggest foreign bands in China, but its label, Warner Brothers, has not released its latest CD there. And despite recent tours by Nine Inch Nails, Sonic Youth and the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, the Chinese division of Universal has not released their records either.The labels say that piracy has made the effort futile. The International Federation of the Phonographic  Industry, a trade group, estimates that 85 percent of the CDs sold in China are counterfeit. Leong Mayseey, the federation's regional director for Asia, says the piracy rate for downloaded songs is close to 100 percent.When Jeff Antebi, manager of the R&B duo Gnarls Barkley, was looking over worldwide accounting statements, he was perplexed to see that the group's song "Crazy," a Top 10 hit around the world, registered no sales at all in China. It was a "black hole," he said. Frustrated when the label, Warner Brothers, blamed only piracy, Mr. Antebi recently decided to open an office in China to protect his interests."Major record companies have two options in a place like China," he said. "Adapt or die."But many Chinese labels, nimble and unencumbered by tradition, have adapted to the contaminated marketplace in ways that Western companies are struggling with.  Viewing CDs as a loss leader they routinely sign groups to all-encompassing contracts that allow the label to share in revenues from touring, merchandise and endorsements."The Chinese music industry will be the model for the world's music industry one day," said Shen Lihui, the founder of Modern Sky, a small company that has released around 100 albums — most money losers, Mr. Shen said — but also has a host of auxiliary businesses, producing books, videos and Web sites.Strolling through the festival grounds Mr. Shen, dressed in a lavender Burberry shirt and white shoes, pointed out the many corporate sponsors: Motorola, Levi's, Diesel jeans. These deals bring in the money needed to run the event, he said, and his audience has no objection to advertising. By the main stage, which was flanked with giant Motorola-branded screens, one young man waved a big red flag that said, in a Beijing dialect, "I rock!"For most concerts sponsorships are a necessity. Traveling expenses and the need for low ticket prices — anything higher than $6 or $7 or so is prohibitively expensive for many young Chinese — mean that many shows would lose money unless sponsors pick up the slack.Advertisers can also lend essential brand identification to acts that have less recognition in China, said P. T. Black, a partner in Jigsaw International, a market research agency in Shanghai."In the U.S. an artist becomes big, and then a brand latches on to borrow their credibility," Mr. Black said. "Here there are virtually no artists who have more credibility than the brands. Coke is a lot cooler brand than any young musician today in China."Many of the Western acts reaching Chinese shores operate far below the radar of multinational corporations. A decade of exploration by punk and metal groups has carved pathways through clubs in a dozen or so cities, and economical musicians — going by train because of the expense and unreliability of highway traveling — can break even on a tour.Even little-known American bands can easily accommodate a Chinese jaunt. Last month the Birthday Boyz, a Brooklyn quartet that describes its sound as "very dire, dynamic, metallic post-hardcore" and plays tiny clubs at home, hustled through two weeks of Chinese shows.Dodging other coach-class passengers in the aisle of a train from Changsha to Wuhan, two smog-choked inland cities with strong punk scenes, Jeff Bobula, one of the Birthday Boyz' guitarists, described the culture shock: "The basis of touring the U.S. is, you hop in a van or car, you drive all day, you play, hopefully you sleep somewhere, and then you wake up and go to the next show. In China all the traveling you do is very public."Small bands can escape the notice of the Chinese government, but any band playing a gig above the club level will inevitably encounter the Ministry of Culture and its censors. Every lyric on a CD and every song planned for a live performance must be approved to obtain the necessary permits for a concert or retail release of an album. Approval can take months, and the ministry has a way of undercutting the best-laid plans of global promotional campaigns."Most of the rejected tracks are smash hits in the international market," said Danny Sim, the marketing director for international repertory at Universal Music China. "Akon's 'Smack That' and 'I Wanna Love You,' those tracks were rejected by the government. They were the first and second single from the album."Censorship can rear its head in less obvious ways. When Sonic Youth played Beijing in April, its hand-picked opening act, a Chinese band called Carsick Cars, was taken off the bill at the last minute. No explanation was given, but Thurston Moore, one of Sonic Youth's guitarists, said he suspected the government had been alerted to his band's participation in the Tibetan Freedom Concerts in the United States in the 1990s and was offering an oblique punishment."Who do you argue with?" Mr. Moore said after returning home. "You don't. If you argue, you go to jail."Bands touring China face more prosaic hurdles as well. When the Yeah Yeah Yeahs were preparing to play at Modern Sky, their sound check took far longer than usual — "10, 12, 15 hours," Karen O said with a groan — because the local crew's professional standards were low.But after the concert the band celebrated at a cavernous dance club, calling the show a success. Nick Zinner, the guitarist, said playing in China was something the band had wanted to do for years. When asked why, Mr. Zinner opened his eyes wide and looked at the crowd of well-dressed young Chinese."It's the future," he said.The Hammond B-3 organist Sam Yahel began his second set at the Jazz Standard on Tuesday night with a row of intervals arranged to avoid any hint of resolution. This dash of atonality was fleeting — after a minute or two he plunged into a tune along with guitar and drums  — but Mr. Yahel made it an efficient statement of purpose. This was an organ-trio gig, he seemed to be saying, but maybe not in all the ways you might expect.There was  no outright blues in the set, and not much in the way of punchy riffs or silvery runs. What emerged instead was a dark-hued sensibility indebted to several shades of pop and world music, as well as the postbop modalities of B-3  heroes like Larry Young. Rhythm functioned as considerably more than an engine of momentum; it was the heart of the enterprise, almost the main point.Mr. Yahel (pronounced ya-HEL) has come to his style partly through extensive work in areas just outside jazz. (He appears on the first two Norah Jones albums, and on the latest by Madeleine Peyroux.) His most visible role in recent years was as a member of the Elastic Band, a groove-oriented project of the tenor saxophonist Joshua Redman that usually featured Brian Blade on drums. For his rewarding and self-assured new album, "Truth and Beauty" (Origin), Mr. Yahel enlisted Mr. Redman and Mr. Blade, deriving obvious comfort in their rapport. (The same three musicians can be also heard on "Yaya3," a 2002 release that represents Mr. Yahel's last output as a leader, or at least a nonsideman.) At the Jazz Standard though, during a two-night run, he had a different crew. Curiously enough, this might have been for the best.The guitarist Lionel Loueke and the drummer Francisco Mela brought fresh vitality to the bandstand: right from the first tune,  they produced an engagingly slippery undercurrent that Mr. Yahel seemed to relish. Another piece, "Oumou," rode a sinuous 5/4 pulse that Mr. Mela approached from multiple angles. Mr. Loueke did much the same in his gripping solo: turning asymmetry into a plot device, he gave the impression of feeling his way through the form, phrase by phrase.Mr. Yahel played thoughtfully and commandingly throughout the set, making the most of his resources. He allowed himself some faintly churchy timbres in "Jealous Guy," the John Lennon song, and later gave himself room to roar on a vintage original called "Hometown." Closing with "And Then Some," another older tune by Mr. Yahel, he kept up both a low churn and a midrange chatter, deeply engaged in polyrhythm. Beside him, his band mates gleefully slashed away, sounding reluctant to let the groove fade.'JORDIN SPARKS' (19/Jive/Zomba)In some ways the debut album from Jordin Sparks sounds like a mirror-image version of the new Britney Spears album, "Blackout." Ms. Spears had a problem: She needed to figure out how to make the most of her limited-range voice and reputation for debauchery. And Ms. Sparks, winner of the sixth season of "American Idol," had the opposite problem: She needed to figure out how to make the most of her smooth, unquirky voice and her wholesome reputation.These opposite problems seem to have the same solution: adventurous electronic pop. Ms. Sparks's addictive self-titled debut includes three tracks produced (partly or wholly) by Bloodshy & Avant, the maximalist Swedish team behind some of Ms. Spears's best songs. While the bleeps and blurts on Ms. Spears's album often seemed like a musical expression of her tumultuous life, the weirdest songs on "Jordin Sparks" seem designed to tug against the smiling, God-fearing 17-year-old pictured in the CD booklet."I'm sick and tired of them bad boys," she sings, in a clean-cut club track called "Shy Boy." But even as she remains focused, the zooming, stuttering synthesizers hint at a sordid world of urges and impulses.No "American Idol" viewer will be surprised to hear that Ms. Sparks knows her way around a lightweight love song. "Tattoo" is her absurdly catchy current single: "You're on my heart, just like a tattoo," she sings, although the line might make more literal sense if she sang, "You're on my tattoo, just like a heart."It was produced by the Norwegian duo Stargate, and it sounds like a cousin of Beyoncé's "Irreplaceable," another Stargate production. More often, though, the musical references are unexpected. "No Air," with Chris Brown, breathes life into the overfamiliar piano line from Coldplay's "Clocks." And "Permanent Monday" is a hybrid so bizarre it's all but impossible to hate: Imagine Radiohead's "Subterranean Homesick Alien" slowly morphing into a power ballad worthy of Celine Dion.A couple of inspirational songs — "This Is My Now," her "American Idol" signature, and the heavy-handed "God Loves Ugly" — are hidden at the end, perhaps to remind listeners of the middling CD this could have been but isn't. If you're so inclined, you can pretend the album ends two tracks earlier, with "See My Side," which must be one of the year's prettiest pop songs.It starts softly and restrainedly, with Ms. Sparks murmuring the same note (it's a G) 33 times in a row, accompanied by a chiming music box, a buzzing bass and a few echoey hand claps.As the music builds into an electro-pop lullaby, she delivers the chorus: "See my side/And I'll see yours better." It's a bland, down-to-earth promise, and it sounds great floating in space. KELEFA SANNEHAMY WINEHOUSE"Frank"(Island/Universal Republic)Earlier in the year, when the "No, no, no" refrain in Amy Winehouse's defining single, "Rehab," felt a lot more lighthearted, few people would have predicted that her next American release would be a retread. Then came a parade of news reports, tabloid and otherwise, that messed with the angle of her ascent. (Inverted it, even.) It's no wonder her label seems keen to remind us of the genuine talent behind that beehive and mascara. "Frank" was hailed as a star-making debut when it was issued in Britain four years ago. Heard today, its glossy admixture of breezy funk, dub and jazz-inflected soul makes a somewhat less dazzling impression.Ms. Winehouse already has her pliable and alluringly dark-hued alto, but her style isn't fully evolved. She emulates Erykah Badu, confessing the influence in a passing line; Sarah Vaughan gets both a name check and some outright imitation. A couple of reconfigured jazz standards, including a reggae-tinged "Moody's Mood for Love," come across like well-intentioned misfires.But Ms. Winehouse is grippingly effective, even at this stage of the game, when she pushes an air of toughened candor. "Frank" includes her bold admonition to a presumptuous ex-lover ("In My Bed"); an even bolder confession of infidelity, delivered with a shrug ("I Heard Love Is Blind"); and a few other depictions of troubled affairs. Her producer — Salaam Remi, a hip-hop veteran who later joined Mark Ronson in producing "Back to Black," Ms. Winehouse's breakthrough follow-up — clearly understands that tension suits her best.Of course even Mr. Remi, revisiting "Frank," might pause at these lyrics from "October Song," the tune with the Sarah Vaughan allusion:With dread I woke in my bedTo shooting pains up in my headLovebird, my beautiful birdSpoke until one day she couldn't be heardShe just stopped singingShe probably had no such intention, but the image is all too easy to link to her recent travails. So if the American release of "Frank" reconfirms her generous gifts as a singer, it also reveals what's at stake as things slip out of her control. NATE CHINENLOREN STILLMAN"Blind Date"(Pirouet)Loren Stillman, an exceptionally gifted young alto saxophonist, has not been shy about his music. "Blind Date," on the German label Pirouet, is his seventh release in four years. Most of his previous efforts have conveyed the casual integrity of progress reports, not a bad thing for a jazz musician in his 20s. But Mr. Stillman has delved deeper here, creating a thematically unified yet multidimensional work.He receives invaluable support from the pianist Gary Versace, the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer Joey Baron, a buoyant and broad-minded rhythm section. Throughout the album they expertly follow the contours of Mr. Stillman's compositions, applying more or less pressure as the situation demands.Mr. Stillman writes music that's intricate but unforced and devoid of pretension. A few of his melodies attest to the influence of Paul Motian, with whom he has apprenticed; his harmonic logic can evoke Wayne Shorter, whose example he has absorbed.There's also a hint of Tim Berne's stuttering rhythmic cadence, in a tune called "Don't Be Too Nice." To Mr. Stillman's credit, none of these invocations goes far enough to suggest a pastiche.Just as important, he has a distinctive sound on his instrument — full but dry, with only the slightest intimation of vibrato — and he shows restraint and consideration in his solos. When a song opens up rhythmically, as happens often here, he sets an agenda without closing off alternative options. He's a watchful sort of improviser, rigorous about everything, including the unknown. NATE CHINENKYLIE MINOGUE"X"(Parlophone/EMI UK)Kylie Minogue has been a star since the 1980s, but she reinvented herself this decade by pairing her breathy, elegant vocals with stylish electronic beats; she embraced the (musical) science and the (lyrical) fiction that some pop stars try to hide. (Remember her aggressively artificial music video for "Can't Get You Out of My Head"?) But these days the pop charts are full of androids, and Ms. Minogue's style doesn't seem quite so singular. From R&B Lotharios to "American Idol" starlets, lots of singers are making playful but chilly electronic pop music."X" is Ms. Minogue's first album since her struggle with breast cancer, which was exhaustively chronicled in her native Australia and in Britain. (The album arrives in Britain today; an American release is planned for next year.) The first single is "2 Hearts," a stomping love song that never quite ignites, despite its repeated "Woo!" And while the album's beats are typically sharp, some of the old giddiness seems to have gone missing. She sounds a bit too self-conscious when she sings, "I got my best dress on, can I be your fantasy?" And in "Stars" you will hear her coo a truly terrifying phrase: "the meaning of life."But if Ms. Minogue hasn't quite figured out her next move, she still finds clever ways to one-up the competition: "All I See" sounds like a song Janet Jackson should have recorded; "Wow" updates '80s-era Madonna; while "No More Rain" updates '90s-era Madonna. And though "X" doesn't raise Ms. Minogue's own high standards, it does sometimes meet them. "Speakerphone," produced by Bloodshy & Avant (who are on a roll, to put it mildly), is a meta-dance song, intoxicated with itself. "Track repeat go on and on," she sings, as if she has found a digital approximation of bliss. KELEFA SANNEHGRAM PARSONS "Gram Parsons With the Flying Burrito Bros: Live at the Avalon Ballroom 1969: Archives, Vol. 1"(Amoeba)It is often said that the Flying Burrito Brothers' 1969 album "Gilded Palace of Sin" was the starting place of alternative country. But one could come to that record cold or blindfolded, listen to certain parts of it and not really understand why. "Real" country music — Merle Haggard, Johnny Paycheck, Willie Nelson, Bobby Bare — had gotten pretty confrontational and forthright at this point. What was the difference between the Burrito Brothers' Los Angeles-based "alternative" version and the mainstream Nashville one? Was there ever a need for alternative country?There's a much clearer answer in these live shows, recorded in 1969 at the Avalon Ballroom in San Francisco a few months after the release of "Gilded Palace." It's mostly in the rhythm section. The drummer Mike Clarke — who had previously been the drummer for the Byrds — pushes zealously through these shuffles and ballads, getting on top or ahead of the beat. He doesn't sit back in the beat and play the bare minimum, as Nashville session players did, and he's pushed up more loudly in the mix. There's more kick drum, more business on the snare.The band was playing a lot of "Gilded Palace" material, but also honky-tonk covers like Mel Tillis's "Mental Revenge" and Hank Williams's "You Win Again"; and at this gig it was opening for the Grateful Dead. Accordingly, the rhythm section is playing rock grooves, even when imitating country ones. It is a whole different sound.Another difference between this band and the Nashville big leagues is vocal professionalism. A lot of Gram Parsons's cult popularity has to do with the frail expressiveness of his voice. Here, as he sings harmonized lines with Chris Hillman, there is too much frailty. Together they fall off pitch, sometimes gratingly. It drives you back to concentrating on bass and drums. BEN RATLIFFCLASSICALFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.Opera'GRIFFELKIN' (Wednesday) The opera department at the Manhattan School of Music typically presents unusual repertory in polished, thoughtfully conceived productions. Its current offering, Lukas Foss's "Griffelkin," was composed for an NBC broadcast in 1955, and tells the story of a young devil — the title character — who visits earth on his 10th birthday to learn about the joys and sorrows of mortality. Linda Brovsky directs the production, and Steven Osgood conducts the student singers and orchestra. At 7:30 p.m. (there is a discussion by the production team at 6), Manhattan School of Music, Broadway at 122nd Street, Morningside Heights, (917) 493-4428, www.msmnyc.edu; $20; $10 for students and 65+. (Allan Kozinn)★ 'IPHIGÉNIE EN TAURIDE' (Saturday and Wednesday) After a 90-year absence, Gluck's crowning achievement comes to the Met in a grimly effective production by Stephen Wadsworth. The mezzo-soprano Susan Graham, who has made a calling card of the title role in recent years, portrays the haunted daughter of King Agamemnon affectingly — an intense, vulnerable and vocally lustrous performance. The Met is using a later version of the opera with the lead baritone role of Oreste adapted for tenor voice. The reason is to accommodate Plácido Domingo, singing his 125th role and still taking artistic chances. Though he has to conserve his power, he throws himself, sometimes bodily, into the role and sings with astonishing vigor. In his Met debut Louis Langrée conducts an urgent, elegant performance. But Gluck steals the show with his sublime opera. Saturday at 1:30 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $220 on Saturday, sold out on Wednesday. (Anthony Tommasini)'NORMA' (Friday and Tuesday) In the preseason shuffling of singers that took place at the Metropolitan Opera this summer, Maria Guleghina was substituted out of the first performances of "Norma," and given Lady Macbeth. She has, however, stepped in to cover the later performances in the run. Ms. Guleghina always gives her all, sometimes erratically, sometimes wildly, but with conviction. Most of the rest of the cast is unchanged: Dolora Zajick is an old-school presence who sings most impressively; Franco Farina is his usual solid but unspectacular self as Pollione. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $205 on Friday, sold out on Tuesday.(Anne Midgette)★ 'LE NOZZE DI FIGARO' (Saturday) An almost entirely new cast took over the Met's production of Mozart's "Nozze di Figaro" earlier this month, and the company could hardly put up a better roster of singers. The bass-baritone Bryn Terfel has said that these performances will be his last as Figaro, all the more reason to hear his hardy, impetuous and vocally robust portrayal. The baritone Simon Keenlyside brings an effective blend of vocal elegance and dramatic danger to his performance as the calculating Count Almaviva.  The show is almost stolen, though, by the intensely expressive German soprano Anja Harteros as Countess Almaviva. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Tommasini)Classical MusicBARGEMUSIC (Friday through Sunday) As part of its "Here and Now" series of contemporary American music, this floating concert hall on the Brooklyn side of the East River is presenting the Williams Chamber Players on Friday in works for violin, piano and percussion by André Previn, John Corigliano, Frederic Rzewski, Kenji Bunch and David Kechley. The rest of the weekend is devoted to Bach, with the cellist Colin Carr playing the six Cello Suites — the odd-numbered ones on Saturday, the even-numbered ones on Sunday. Friday and Saturday night at 8, Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+ Friday only. (Kozinn)BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Monday) The orchestra's program, conducted by James Levine, is all French. Renée Fleming is busy singing "Le Temps l'Horloge" by Dutilleux and a ravishing list of Duparc songs. Berlioz is also on the program. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $45 to $141. (Bernard Holland)CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Tuesday) This group kicks off its Baroque Festival with Samuel Baron's arrangement of Bach's "Art of Fugue" for string quartet and wind quintet. The superb Orion String Quartet will join forces with the ensemble Windscape for Bach's monumental masterpiece. At 7:30 p.m., New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; sold out. (Vivien Schweitzer)CURTIS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA (Sunday) Joseph Silverstein conducts the virtual professionals of the eminent Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia in a program of Fauré, Debussy and Mozart. Anthony McGill is the clarinetist in the Debussy "Première Rhapsodie." At 2 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680, pscny.org; sold out, though tickets, at $9 and $11, may be available at the box office. (Holland)★ 'DELUSION OF THE FURY' (Tuesday and Thursday) Using Japanese Noh plays and an African folk legend as his sources, the experimental composer Harry Partch created this music-theater work in 1969, and it has not been staged since. Japan Society is presenting a version directed by John Jesurun and choreographed by Dawn Akemi Saito. Newband, directed by the Partch specialist Dean Drummond, performs the work on Partch's collection of homemade instruments. At 7:30 p.m., 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 715-1258, japansociety.org; $52; $45 for members. (Kozinn)★ 'EINSTEIN ON THE BEACH' (Thursday) Excerpts from this mind-bending, epoch-making 1976 musical theater piece from Philip Glass and Robert Wilson will feature Lucinda Childs and Melvin van Peebles. Michael Riesman conducts the Philip Glass Ensemble. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $19 to $64. (Holland)'THE GATE' (Wednesday) "The First Emperor," the ambitious opera Tan Dun wrote for the Met, was a miscalculated work that got a mixed reception. Still, Mr. Tan has proven himself in the music-theater genre in other efforts. Now he takes "The Gate," a multimedia piece including video, vocalists, puppetry and orchestra (with a prominent role for solo percussion), to the Brooklyn Academy of Music. The work traces the transformative journeys, deaths and ultimate resurrections of three heroines who have given themselves for love. Michael Christie conducts the Brooklyn Philharmonic. At 7:30 p.m., 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $20 to $60. (Tommasini)ALEXANDER GHINDIN (Monday) This winner of the latest Cleveland International Piano Competition makes his New York recital debut. He will perform Schumann's "Kinderszenen," Rodion Shchedrin's "Sonatine Concertante," Stravinsky's "Three Movements from Petrouchka" and Liszt's Sonata in B minor. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $15. (Schweitzer)JERUSALEM QUARTET (Thursday) As part of a series at the 92nd Street Y commemorating the 60th anniversary of the founding of Israel, this ensemble performs Beethoven's "Serioso" String Quartet (Op. 95), a work by the contemporary Israeli composer Tzvi Avni, and Brahms's Clarinet Quintet, with the young, Russian-born Israeli clarinetist Alexander Fiterstein. At 8 p.m., 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $40. (Schweitzer)★ KIROV ORCHESTRA (Saturday, Sunday and Tuesday) Valery Gergiev brings the orchestra and an ensemble of singers from the Kirov Opera at the Maryinski Theater in St. Petersburg for three programs featuring landmark Russian operas and major 20th-century orchestral works. Saturday's program offers Act I of Glinka's "Ruslan and Ludmila" and Stravinsky's "Rite of Spring." On Sunday there will be a complete concert performance of Rimsky-Korsakov's "Snow Maiden." And Tuesday pairs Stravinsky's dramatic cantata "Les Noces" with Act II of Borodin's "Prince Igor." Mr. Gergiev and his Kirov forces perform this repertory with mesmerizing authority. Saturday and Tuesday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $42 to $142.(Tommasini)JOEL KROSNICK AND GILBERT KALISH (Thursday) As part of the faculty recital series at Juilliard, the cellist Joel Krosnick and the pianist Gilbert Kalish (longtime duo partners) offer "American Milestones of the Last 100 Years," including "A Life" by Ernst Bacon, Ralph Shapey's "Sonata Appassionata," Richard Wernick's Duo and the premiere of Robert Stern's "Tekiah G'Dolah." At 8 p.m., Paul Hall, Juilliard School, 144 West 66th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu; free, but tickets are required. (Schweitzer)MATA INTERVAL (Friday) The festival Music at the Anthology (MATA), devoted to new music by the under-40 set, has always taken self-definition loosely. This weekend it is one of two presenters of a new twice-monthly series at Issue Project Room in Brooklyn intended to showcase new work and to provide experience for participants in its new Curatorial Associate program, allowing young artists a hand in  actually assembling a concert. The first curatorial associate is Zach Layton, a composer and video artist; he has amassed a multimedia program of vocal music by Jessica Pavone (including a cycle for soprano and her own string quartet) and Ray Sweeten (whose song cycle "L'Uomo Ferroso" is based on Italian translations of heavy-metal music). At 8, 232 Third Street, at Third Avenue, Carroll Gardens, (718) 330-0313, issueprojectroom.org; $10.(Midgette)NEW JERSEY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Friday through Sunday) Neeme Jarvi leads his orchestra and the Westminster Symphonic Choir in Mahler's grandly scaled, emotionally intense "Resurrection" Symphony. The soloists are Twyla Robinson, soprano, and Nancy Maultsby, mezzo-soprano. Friday at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, Newark; Saturday at 8 p.m., War Memorial, Trenton; (800) 255-3476, njsymphony.org; $20 to $78. (Kozinn)★ NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Friday, Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday) There are major conducting debuts at the Philharmonic this week. Gustavo Dudamel, the brilliantly gifted young Venezuelan who is the most talked-about conductor on the international scene, gives his first performances with the orchestra this weekend and on Tuesday in works by Carlos Chávez, Dvorak (the Violin Concerto, with Gil Shaham) and Prokofiev (the feisty Fifth Symphony). Thursday will be the Philharmonic unveiling of Philippe Jordan, the young Swiss conductor who  was just appointed music director of the Opéra National de Paris, starting in 2009. Pierre-Laurent Aimard joins him for Beethoven's Third Piano Concerto; the program also includes works by Dvorak and Smetana ("Ma Vlast"). Friday and Saturday night at 8, Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $29 to $102. (Tommasini)PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (Friday) Simon Rattle, six singers, a chorus and the mighty Philadelphia rediscover Schumann's grand and exotic oratorio "Das Paradies und die Peri." Worth a trip. At 8, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $31 to $104. (Holland)ALAIN PLANÈS (Sunday) This French pianist, a former member of the Ensemble Intercontemporain in Paris, makes his New York recital debut with works he has recorded for Harmonia Mundi. The program includes Debussy's "Estampes," Janacek's "On an Overgrown Path," Haydn's Sonata No. 31 and Schubert's Sonata No. 4 in A minor. At 5 p.m., Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 547-0715, frick.org; $25. (Schweitzer)MATTHEW POLENZANI (Sunday) Versatile and elegant, reliable and perhaps therefore underappreciated, this tenor offers a short and tasteful recital of Schubert, Beethoven ("An die ferne Geliebte"), Liszt, Britten ("Seven Sonnets of Michelangelo") and Reynaldo Hahn, accompanied by the seasoned Julius Drake. At 5 p.m., Rose Theater, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $30 to $60. (Midgette)SAMUEL RAMEY AND ELLIE DEHN (Sunday) The George London Foundation recital series often pairs established vocal stars with rising talents. This weekend's installment presents the doughty, if sometimes woofy, bass Samuel Ramey and a young soprano, Ellie Dehn, in her New York recital debut. The program will include Mozart, Strauss, Gounod, Boito, Berlioz and Copland; Warren Jones, an agile pianist, accompanies. At 4:30 p.m., Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 956-2809, morganlibrary.org; $45. (Midgette)TALLIS SCHOLARS (Wednesday) At Christmas, all ears turn churchward. Here these eminent early-music singers perform Palestrina, Josquin, Crecquillon and Handl  in a program presented by Miller Theater. At 8 p.m., St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street, (212) 854-7799, millertheatre.com; $35; $21 for students. (Holland)★ CHRISTIAN TETZLAFF AND ALEXANDER LONQUICH (Sunday and Tuesday) These two eloquent players conclude their three-part traversal of all the Beethoven violin and piano sonatas. Sunday includes the graceful "Spring" Sonata (Op. 24) and the Sonatas in A (Op. 30, No. 1) and C minor (Op. 30, No. 2); Tuesday begins and ends with G major Sonatas (Op. 30, No. 3; Op. 96), with the "Kreutzer" between them. Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday at 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $40. (Kozinn)★ TRIO MEDIAEVAL (Tuesday) A group with a distinctive voice — three voices, in fact — this Norwegian women's ensemble presents selections from its luminous third album, "Folk Songs" (ECM New Series), mainly arrangements of traditional Norwegian folk songs, with accompaniment (by Birger Mistereggen) on percussion and jew's harp. At 7:30 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $42. (Midgette)EVERY weekday, starting as early as 7 in the morning and continuing until 7 at night, weary-looking men dressed in threadbare jackets and worn running shoes gather at the corner of Roosevelt Avenue and 73rd Street in Jackson Heights, Queens, under the gloomy shadow of the el.Swiveling their heads as if watching a tennis match, the men scan each passing car, in the hope that a driver will stop and offer up $100 in exchange for a 10-hour day of grueling labor on a construction or demolition project on Long Island.But offers of work are few these days, and competition for jobs is intense. As winter approaches, a man can easily spend the entire day shivering and desperately hungry, because these day laborers, many of them from Mexico or elsewhere in Latin America, are not only poor immigrants in need of work; many are also homeless, or nearly."We come here to look for work," said a 47-year-old Ecuadorean named Carlos Suarez as he hugged a cheap leopard-print comforter that serves as his bed. "There is none. What can we do?"Mr. Suarez says that he has sometimes gone days without eating and has on occasion survived only on bread. But for the past three months, he has eaten at least one hot meal a day, thanks to a former illegal immigrant who, with the help of his mother, has become a guardian angel for these workers.The man, Jorge Muñoz, is an elfin 43-year-old who goes by the nickname Colombia, a reference to the country from which he emigrated 21 years ago.Every night around 9:30, he arrives at the intersection from his home in Woodhaven, driving a white pickup truck laden with enough home-cooked fare to feed the dozens of day laborers who congregate there.For many New Yorkers, Thanksgiving is a weekend to indulge in a brief stint of volunteerism at a church or soup kitchen. For Mr. Muñoz, the holiday is just another night devoted to feeding his unofficial flock."Every single night, Jorge is here," said one worker, his leathery face peering out from a hooded sweatshirt. "Doesn't matter. Rain, thunderstorm, lightning. He do that from his good will, you know."He feeds everybody, make the stomach happy," the worker added. "He's an angel."•When Mr. Muñoz's truck pulled in, several workers pressed their faces to the tinted windows, hoping to catch a glimpse of dinner. Hopping into the back of the truck, Mr. Muñoz began untying steaming containers filled with hot chocolate and foil-covered trays of homemade barbecued chicken. As the workers accepted Styrofoam containers stuffed with hearty portions of chicken and rice, they thanked him as respectfully as if he were a parent, never mind that the 5-foot-2 Mr. Muñoz, with his buzz cut and boyish grin, could pass for 20-something."God bless you," one burly worker said as he dug into his meal. "I haven't eaten in three days."Mr. Muñoz replied with a smile, "You can eat here every day at 9:30."The relationship between Mr. Muñoz and many of the men he feeds is personal. "Uribe, you want more coffee?" he asked as he saw a familiar face. "Simon, do you want seconds on this pasta?"In a way, Mr. Muñoz seems to need these men as much as they need him. His unofficial meal program gives meaning and focus to his life. He is as eager to help his motley clientele as they are to be helped."I know these people are waiting for me," he said of the emotions that fuel his quixotic and perhaps obsessive crusade. "And I worry about them. You have to see their smile, man. That's the way I get paid."Big Heart, Special TamalesThe operation through which these workers have been fed without charge began three years ago and is financed mainly from the $600 a week Mr. Muñoz earns driving a school bus.His life revolves almost entirely around preparing and serving the meals. All the cooking is done in the small house with gray vinyl siding where he lives with his 66-year-old mother, Doris Zapata, and his sister, Luz, who works for the Social Security Administration.He telephones home from the road a dozen times a day to plan the menus. He has few friends, and no hobbies."I haven't seen a movie in two years," Mr. Muñoz said one afternoon in his kitchen as he boiled milk for hot chocolate. "But sometimes I listen to music when I'm driving."His sister described the situation more bluntly. "He got no life," she said, looking awkwardly away from her brother as she stirred a boiling pot of lentils. "But he got a big heart. He really does."Mr. Muñoz also has stamina. Every morning he gets up at 4:45 to assess his inventory of food, which is made available in part with the help of friends and acquaintances. He doesn't have to go far.A mammoth freezer that occupies nearly half the dining room is stocked with cooked meats and vegetables that he collects twice a week from Colombian acquaintances who work in the food industry on Long Island, but whose names Mr. Muñoz will not disclose so as not to jeopardize their jobs. The dining room table is laden with boxes of fresh but slightly wounded bagels and rolls donated weekly by Monteforte, an Italian bakery in Richmond Hill. From Tia Betty Mexica Bakery and Tortilleria in Woodhaven come bulging bags of sweet breads."One day Jorge just came in and asked for extra food for his guys," said Tomas Gutierrez, owner of Tia Betty. "Tortillas, breads — last week we made special tamales for his guys."Mr. Muñoz's porch is walled with bulk-size bottles of ketchup and mayonnaise, and the living room is littered with the bounty from his weekly trips to Costco: 15 bags of spaghetti, six cans of tomato sauce, and boxes of plastic containers in front of the television. Mr. Muñoz says he has not watched the television in more than a year.A Family's Tortured JourneyAlthough Ms. Zapata does not help deliver meals, she is an equal partner in her son's operation, and her involvement is born in part from her own experiences.For the first years of her marriage, the family lived in a small city in Colombia. In 1974, her husband was killed when a passing truck sent a rock sailing into his head as he sat on a curb outside the coffee distribution factory where he worked. Although her parents visited monthly bringing food to feed Jorge and Luz, then 9 and 10, the help was not enough.In 1984, after a decade of struggle, Ms. Zapata left her children with her parents and began the journey that eventually would take her to Bushwick, Brooklyn, where she found work as a live-in nanny, earning $120 a week.Over the next two years she saved enough to bring her children to the city — all three are now United States citizens — but the osteoporosis and arthritis that have twisted her hands and hunched her back forced her into retirement seven years ago.All these experiences have given her particular empathy for the workers her son feeds."We were immigrants and we were illegal," Ms. Zapata said one afternoon as she poured lemon juice into a bowl of rice. "So I imagine that the workers may also be going around in fear, hiding from the police, hiding from immigration."Ms. Zapata thinks she understands the feelings that motivate her son, whom she calls Georgie. He always had a good Samaritan side, she said, which was on display when he was just 7 and a man came by their house asking for food.Ms. Zapata told the visitor they had none. "But Jorge gave him his plate," she recalled. "I said, 'Jorge, you have to eat for school.' And he said, 'No, I'll just have bread.'"'Guys Are Waiting for Me'The mission shared by mother and son started three years ago when Colombian acquaintances who work in the food industry mentioned to Mr. Muñoz that excess food was thrown out at their workplaces. One evening around the same time, he noticed the knot of day laborers clustered under the el.Stopping to talk, he learned that most of them sleep under the bridge across the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway at 69th Street or in the emergency room of Elmhurst Hospital, where they can stay until they are booted out at 5 a.m. To save money, they skimp on meals, and the little money they pocket is immediately wired to destitute relatives back home.In the beginning, Mr. Muñoz's commitment to feeding these men was modest. Three nights a week, he stuffed each of eight brown bags with a piece of fruit, a cookie and a juice box, loaded the bags into his truck, and drove to the corner where the men congregated. Word spread, and within a year, Mr. Muñoz and his mother were churning out 15 hot dinners a night. Now they feed several dozen on a single evening."Once I started, I can't go back," he said as he headed off one recent evening. "Those guys are waiting for me. These guys, they got nothing. They live in the street. They have no family. They have no relatives, nothing. They just wait for me. And I say, 'O.K., no problem.'"If It's Thursday ...Because donations are sporadic and quantities unpredictable, cooking for a crowd in a kitchen the size of a parking space presents a nightly logistical challenge.At 3 o'clock one recent afternoon, Ms. Zapata could be found staring dubiously at a tray of cooked, frozen barbecued chicken that had been donated by one of her son's benefactors. By 4, the chicken had thawed, but she estimated that it would feed only 20 people. Her son, who had just returned from his afternoon bus run, said 30 meals were needed. And so began the nightly process of ad hoc menu revision.Time was of the essence. Mr. Muñoz tries hard to make sure the workers are fed at the same time every night; otherwise, he fears, he will lose them.On a calendar pinned to the refrigerator, which bears 10 images of Christ, Ms. Zapata had scribbled the week's menus. Tuesday: baked pork with beans. Wednesday: burgers in barbecue sauce with hash browns. Thursday: pasta with beef.As if seven nights weren't enough, on Fridays Mr. Muñoz collects donated waffles and pancakes, and he serves Saturday breakfast for 200 workers at seven locations in Queens. For Sunday dinner, on what he describes as his "day off," he and his sister make 40 ham and cheese sandwiches.This afternoon, Mr. Muñoz and his mother scrutinized the week's menus to figure out what they could scrounge from storage without upending the rest of the week's schedule. After a quick survey of items on the porch, Mr. Muñoz decided on pasta with tuna.Soon, pots on all four burners on the stove were bubbling with milk, pasta, and white and yellow rice. While waiting for the chicken to warm, Ms. Zapata and her children began sorting bills on a chair in a bedroom; no other space was available. Electricity runs about $120 a month, and gas $100 every two months.According to Mr. Muñoz, the family spends about $200 a week on the meals."If I had a choice," he said, "I'd do a good breakfast with a proper budget. And I'd do lunch, too."By 5 p.m. he was fading. He slouched against the kitchen wall and closed his eyes for a moment. Then he straightened up, poured his sixth cup of coffee of the day, and served himself a bowl of lentils over buttered rice. This was his dinner, and as the workers do, he ate standing up.By 8:30, the truck was loaded. "Bye, Mami," Mr. Muñoz said as he gave his mother a kiss. "I love you."En route, he stopped off at the International Ministerial Church of Jesus Christ in Woodside, as he does every night. When he arrived on the corner, the men lined up in single file in front of the bed of the truck, which functioned as a counter. He handed takeout containers to the men, who almost all returned for seconds. One man stuffed plastic boxes of orange juice into his pockets to tide him over until the next meal. Within 10 minutes, the truck was empty.Mr. Muñoz tipped over the hot chocolate cooler. "I think there is a little bit left," he announced to one of the workers. "There is a little, brother. You got the last drop."Hector Peralta, a ponytailed Mexican who came to the United States five years ago, has been eating Mr. Muñoz's dinners for four months. Without them, he said, he would go hungry. "We wouldn't even know what to do," he said. "This is my first meal since yesterday."Gratitude goes both ways."I feel great when I see these guys with their smiling face," Mr. Muñoz said. "Because they got something to eat before they go to sleep."Not too long ago, even just 10 years ago, Jerry Lee Lewis treated songs as if they didn't matter. In concerts at times he sped them up, slowed them down, abandoned them in the middle, acted disdainful of them.Mr. Lewis, now 72, comes from the age of venal managers, rotten publishing deals and payola, when any copyrighted song was an opportunity to rob an artist. It's appropriate for him to feel that he's bigger than a song. But more than that, the best part of him is broader and deeper than any copyrightable details of songcraft and performance.The songs he's famous for — "Great Balls of Fire," "Whole Lotta Shakin' Goin' On," "Breathless," "High School Confidential" — contain adequate boogie-woogie piano and nonsense lyrics about nerves and desires gone crazy, sung in a weirdly steady and droning voice, like an animal trainer's. He is a virtuoso of the upper hand, practicing rock 'n' roll as a system of commands. To wind up listeners, he has pointed them this way and then that way, calmly dominating the songs, letting them complete a hearing only when he wanted them to.So it was disappointing to hear him finish every single song at B. B. King's Blues Club & Grill on Saturday. It was almost as if he had given up the game, although sound problems weren't helping. Mr. Lewis was at sea: He couldn't hear his voice or his piano.The situation was brought to the attention of someone offstage but never fixed. At one point Kenneth Lovelace, Mr. Lewis's rhythm guitarist for 41 years, relayed an answer from the sound technician to his boss. "Well, if that's all he can do, that's all he can do," Mr. Lewis responded, mellow and accommodating, un-Killer-like.This was a typical touch-the-hem-of-his-garment show. Mr. Lewis's band ran through four songs before the main attraction slowly took the stage in an untucked dress shirt, black jeans and shiny black cowboy boots. His hands shook a bit; his face has become full and wattled. His hair, gray now, remains wavy and striking.He fished from his pool of old honky-tonk and rock 'n' roll songs: Chuck Berry's "Roll Over Beethoven," Hank Williams's "You Win Again," Ray Price's "Crazy Arms." From his new repertory he played "Before the Night Is Over," which he recorded in a duet with B. B. King on his recent album, "Last Man Standing." It was all too functional.Then, at last, there were a few flashes of incompletion or disjunction. He spent a while in Charlie Rich's "Don't Put No Headstone on My Grave" and changed tempo twice, from a slow shuffle to a fast boogie-woogie and back again. He played "Hadacol Boogie" from the album, starting it up with the words of "Johnny B. Goode" but changing his mind; then he turned to "Johnny B. Goode" in earnest, lunging into it without warning and cranking the tempo up a little bit after he began, making the band catch up with him. (As he did, he didn't blink, move his head or look at his piano.) This was good: He was determining things, disciplining the songs a little.But it was soon over. He sang "Whole Lotta Shakin' Goin' On," weakly kicked over his piano bench, flashed a thin-lipped smile and made his gingerly exit.WHILE New Orleans continues to struggle to repopulate many residential neighborhoods after Hurricane Katrina pummeled the region in late August 2005, the bulk of the city's popular cultural assets, which generally suffered little damage, are pulling in tens of thousands of out-of-town visitors. And not only are those old venues still big draws — breakfast at Brennan's, a stroll past street artists on Jackson Square, a visit to Preservation Hall to hear traditional jazz — an entirely new selection of cultural and culinary sites has emerged.There are several new galleries, some wailing new music clubs and more than a dozen new restaurants — always a big draw in New Orleans. Even in parts of the city still in recovery there are new showcases for chefs, artists and musicians who continue to find that New Orleans inspires them in a way no other place can.What follows is just a sample of the new offerings, chosen to represent several of New Orleans's most interesting neighborhoods and to showcase some of what's new across the music, food and culture scenes.Musicians' VillageUpper Ninth Wardwww.nolamusiciansvillage.comEven on the tours of still-empty neighborhoods and gutted homes, moments of hope are finally emerging. "People's eyes just light up," noted our guide, Alan Raphael, near the end of a Hurricane Katrina tour for Gray Line. He was talking about the Musicians' Village, a colorfully painted new neighborhood of Habitat for Humanity-built homes.The village was the brainchild of Branford Marsalis and Harry Connick Jr., both born in Louisiana. It will give displaced musicians an opportunity to live and perform in a new kind of community within a community, and will eventually be anchored by the Ellis Marsalis Center for Music, named for the patriarch of the Marsalis family of master musicians."It really is a beacon of hope for a lot of people around here," Mr. Raphael said, ending his tour with a glimpse of a future New Orleans that remains true to a culture and character unlike that of any other city in the world.528 Music Club528 Fulton Street, (504) 533-6117 Of the several new music venues that have appeared since Katrina, 528 Music Club, tucked into a restored building on the Fulton Street entertainment promenade in the Warehouse District, is perhaps the most elegant.Open since last fall, 528's subdued, softly lighted interior provides an intimate setting for a roster of Louisiana favorites like the jazz singers John Boutté and Ingrid Lucia, Bruce Daigrepont's Cajun Band and the blues of Luther Kent. There is no cover charge.Hors d'oeuvres are available at Riche (504-533-6117), Todd English's adjoining restaurant in the same building. A crab salad is $12, as is an accompanying martini.Grand Isle Restaurant 575 Convention Center Boulevard, (504) 520-8530www.grandislerestaurant.com"My first job after washing dishes was picking turtle meat," recalled Joel Dondis of his first lessons in the culinary arts in his hometown, Lake Charles, La.He eventually made his way to New Orleans, where his newest restaurant, Grand Isle, opened in June and is named for one of the state's leading fishing communities.On the menu from the turtle-meat-picking days is turtle stew, with meat roasted on the bones for maximum flavor. An oyster dish is tinged with tasso, the spicy cured pork popular as a flavoring across south Louisiana.The duck debris po' boy  tops crusty French bread with roasted duck in a rich brown sauce filled with crispy brown meat scraped from the pot — known locally as debris. Po' boy prices are under $10, with entrees starting at $15.The décor is understated, with walls covered in black-and-white photos by  Fonville Winan, who spent decades documenting coastal Louisiana life. Williams Research Center410 Chartres Street, (504) 523-4662www.hnoc.orgThere are few cities with a history as colorful as New Orleans's, a fact illustrated when the city's primary repository of historical documents broke ground for a new facility.A careful excavation of the site by the New Orleans Historic Collection uncovered layer upon layer of history, including one section that contained a concentration of liquor bottles and rouge pots.Further research suggested that a hotel that burned on the site in 1822 could have been the House of the Rising Sun, the brothel of folk-song fame.While few records are intact from that enterprise, the new building is a painstaking reproduction of a hotel that was built on the site in the late 19th century.The Williams Research Center of the Historic New Orleans Collection is not only an invaluable resource for those interested in serious research about New Orleans, but the expanded space, facing Conti Street, boasts a first-floor gallery with exhibitions that offer even casual visitors insights into the history and culture of Louisiana.The current exhibition, "Birds of a Feather: Wildfowl Carving in Southeast Louisiana," explores the evolution of hand-carved decoys from utilitarian hunters' gear to art form.Sucré3025 Magazine Street, (504) 520-8311www.shopsucre.comIf you crave something sweet but are ready to move beyond beignets, head to Sucré, which opened in April as a purveyor of a new incarnation of New Orleans confections, including gelato flavored with Steen's cane syrup or with nectar crème, a flavoring similar to cream soda that's a favorite on the shaved-ice treats that help New Orleanians make it through the summer.Then there is the ultimate: the All Things NOLA Sundae. It starts with a base of classic bread pudding made with yesterday's croissants and brioche and topped with butter-pecan gelato. Then on goes bananas Foster sauce, inspired by the famous local dessert.  Crystallized pecans and a drizzle of Steen's are the finishing touches.Ignatius 4200 Magazine Street, (504) 896-2225Ignatius opened in the summer of 2006, tucked into a storefront. While the restaurant's name pays homage to John Kennedy Toole's novel "A Confederacy of Dunces," the food is as appetizing as the book's central character is not.The menu features a fusion of casual Creole and Cajun fare, like shrimp Creole and crayfish étouffée. Brunch includes omelets folded around jambalaya and boudin, the rice-and-meat-filled Cajun sausage. A whimsical touch is having a locally brewed beer like Abita served in the bottle and wrapped in a paper bag, the preferred method among the characters of Mr. Toole's novel.Ray's Boom Boom Room508 Frenchmen Street, (504) 309-7137Ray Holmes had finished remodeling his club in New Orleans East when Katrina washed all his efforts  away. Undeterred, he and the local jazzman Kermit Ruffins stumbled on an empty building on Frenchmen Street, just outside the French Quarter, and opened Ray's Boom Boom Room in November 2006.The space was remodeled, and  a long oyster bar was installed. On Fridays, you can enjoy free oysters at happy hour, while you wait for the local Latin group Freddy Omar con su Banda. The rest of the week it's still at deal at $10 a dozen accompanied by R & B, brass bands and open-mike  sessions.St. Claude Arts DistrictSt. Claude Avenue between Elysian Fields and Poland Avenueswww.scadnola.comPatrons were spilling out the door of L'Art Noir gallery even though it was still gutted just two months after Katrina. It had managed to mount a show of words and images displayed against walls of brown paper tacked to bare studs. L'Art Noir (504-324-2489) is one of three galleries pioneering a still-threadbare landscape just downriver from the French Quarter."I wanted to go someplace again that is still historic, where the houses were responsibly priced," said Andy Antippas of Barrister's Gallery (504-525-2767). He found such a house — completed in 1869 — on St. Claude Avenue with plenty of room for a gallery.A few doors away, the Farrington Smith Gallery (504-942-8600) brought a neglected vintage storefront back to life. The galleries have branded themselves the St. Claude Arts District and hold coordinated openings the second Saturday of each month.Farmers' MarketUpper Ninth Ward, 3500 St. Claude AvenueAlso on St. Claude Avenue, in a neighborhood where waterlines  still mark walls, new lines form in the parking lot of Holy Angels Convent every Saturday from 1 to 4 p.m.Locals line up to buy Wayne Brown's pralines, made from cream, brown sugar and pecans. Creole-style cream cheese — softer than cream cheeses elsewhere — and shrimp ceviche are on offer from Kathia Duran, who gets her shrimp  from Kay Brandhurst,  who is also at the  market.It's all part of a formula that provides another source of remarkable edibles in a city that lives for food and is also an income stream for many whose businesses had catastrophic losses from Katrina.Senator Barack Obama held a fund-raiser in Harlem last night, his first event in the historic seat of black cultural and political power since he announced his Democratic presidential candidacy and a place where  Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton enjoys wide popularity.After hearing from a gospel choir, a jazz combo, the comedian Chris Rock and others, the racially mixed audience of more than 1,500 people at the Apollo Theater broke into loud applause when Mr. Obama appeared from behind the theater's red curtain."I love you, Obama!" a woman shouted from the audience. "I love you back," he said without missing a beat.Mr. Obama's address had a familiar topic: the need for change."All across America, people are struggling like they haven't struggled in a long time," he said. "It's harder to save; it's harder to retire."He added, "All across the nation, people have lost faith that their leaders can and will do anything about it."Mr. Obama did not mention Mrs. Clinton by name, but appeared to refer to her several times. "I'm not running to fulfill some long held plans," he said. "I'm not running because I feel it's owed to me."The event, held in what is perhaps Harlem's most famous landmark, was symbolic not only because of the site but also because it took place in Mrs. Clinton's backyard — and at a theater  only a few blocks west on 125th Street from the offices of former President Bill Clinton.The political division in Harlem is apparent even among the Apollo Theater's board of directors. While Nadja Fidelia, who is also a managing director at Lehman Brothers, has raised at least $50,000 for Mr. Obama, Mrs. Clinton's supporters on the board include Quincy Jones, the music producer, and Edward Lewis, chairman and founder of Essence Communications.While Mrs. Clinton is expected to win New York's primary on Feb. 5, Democrats split their delegates proportionally, so Mr. Obama believes he can win enough delegates in the state to make a difference in a tight race.Michelle Obama, Mr. Obama's wife, played host to a women's event in Harlem in June, and Mr. Obama has traveled to New York City frequently since declaring his candidacy in February, including holding a large rally at Washington Square Park in September.Despite his being regarded as the  African-American with the best chance in history of winning a major political party's nomination, public opinion polls show Mr. Obama trailing Mrs. Clinton among black voters, particularly women.Mrs. Obama said in an interview with MSNBC this month that she did not believe Mrs. Clinton would maintain her lead among African-Americans and that eventually "Black America will wake up and get it."Mrs. Obama added, "But what we're dealing with in the black community is just the natural fear of possibility."Mr. Obama has also had some difficulty winning the support of an older generation of African-American politicians, including in New York. Representative Charles B. Rangel and former Mayor David N. Dinkins have endorsed Mrs.  Clinton, and the Rev. Al Sharpton has made no endorsement.The Rev. Jesse Jackson, who has endorsed Mr.  Obama, wrote an op-ed article in The Chicago Sun-Times this month that with the exception of John Edwards, the Democratic candidates "have virtually ignored the plight of black Americans in this country."
