AS the little orchestra goes through its paces, the composer hunches forward in his seat, furrowing his heavy brow and digging fingers into his lank mane at every cello's sigh or piccolo flourish. It's three days before the premiere of his latest work, and the orchestra is playing it for the first time.Still, these are seasoned pros, and at the end of the run-through the composer, David Johansen, pronounces himself satisfied. "But," he adds, miming a two-stroke power chord, "they've got to hit those B flats — hmm-hmmm."In a 35-year career spanning stints as glam-punk visionary, tuxedoed lounge lizard and scratchy-78-reviving folk-blues archivist, Mr. Johansen, 57, has reveled in providing new answers to Where Are They Now. Where Mr. Johansen is now is in a graffiti-scarred chair in the sixth row of a borrowed high school auditorium on Staten Island, staring down at his pointy white leather ankle boots and listening to a 15-piece ensemble breathe life into the bittersweet tone poem he has just completed.The occasion is a rehearsal for a concert called "The Staten Island Composers Project," taking place tomorrow night and featuring work by three musicians who call the island home: Mr. Johansen; Vernon Reid, founder of the '80s funk-metal pioneers Living Colour; and Galt MacDermot, best known as the composer of the musical "Hair."The Council on the Arts and Humanities for Staten Island commissioned the program and asked each artist to write 20 minutes of music conveying something of his connection to the island often referred to as New York City's forgotten borough.Mr. Johansen's opus, a cinematic and unabashedly romantic Adagio scored mostly for strings, is called "Mara Dreams the Moon Gate of Uncommon Beauty." Mara is his companion, Mara Hennessey. The Moon Gate of Uncommon Beauty is a round portal between two gently surreal rockscapes in the Chinese Scholar's Garden at the Staten Island Botanical Garden, not far from Mr. Johansen's home on the island's north shore.The concert, at the St. George Theater, a baroque 1920s movie palace near the ferry terminal, promises to be a varied one. Mr. Reid has assembled a dense, haunted song suite, "Facing Fear," that addresses 9/11; it will be performed by an expanded version of his high-volume quartet Vernon Reid and Masque. Mr. MacDermot's "Ode to the Arcane Borough" is a set of brightly swinging pieces for small jazz band and strings.Mr. Johansen would seem to be making the biggest leap of the three,  less in exploring new musical turf, which after all is his stock in trade, than in booting himself off center stage and bowing out of his familiar role as charismatically hammy master of ceremonies. At Wednesday's rehearsal at Curtis High School he did not even parse the score for the orchestra, a pickup band of top session and Broadway players. That task fell to his arranger, Daniel J. Coe, for good reason."David actually doesn't read music," Mr. Coe said. (Mr. Johansen confirmed this, though it did not stop him from donning reading glasses to look over Mr. Coe's shoulder at the score in proper composerly fashion.)But Mr. Johansen said "Mara" was an organic progression."All through my life I've always listened to music I'm not playing," he said. "So when I was doing rock 'n' roll at the beginning, I was listening to really mostly kind of country blues and Chicago blues. Then I started listening to a lot of kind of jump jazz and ended up doing that later with the Poindexter thing" — meaning Buster Poindexter, Mr. Johansen's pompadoured alter ego, who flourished in the late '80s.Last year, even as Mr. Johansen was touring with a new version of his early-'70s band the New York Dolls, whose lipstick-smeared clatter prefigured punk, he spent a lot of time listening to slow classical music. "Adagios are my favorite parts of symphonies," he said.His genre skipping began at a tender age. He grew up on Staten Island listening to his father, an insurance salesman, sing opera around the house. In high school he sang Kingston Trio songs at hootenannies at the Jewish Community Center one night and covered Wilson Pickett in battles of the bands the next. Then it was on to the Dolls; a solo career as blue-eyed soul shouter; Buster Poindexter; and his postmillennium backwoods-music project, David Johansen and the Harry Smiths, named for the compiler of the "Anthology of American Folk Music."Last year, just as the Dolls were releasing their first new album in 32 years, the well-received "One Day It Will Please Us to Remember Even This," the Council on the Arts and Humanities came calling. The council was armed with a $100,000 grant to mount a concert of local compositions from the New York State Music Fund, which was established with settlement money from the state's investigations of music companies for payola.The concert's musical director and the conductor of Mr. Johansen's piece, Ray Scro, recalled that at one of the project's first meetings, Mr. Johansen told him, "'You know that piece by Samuel Barber, "Adagio for Strings"? I want to do my own Adagio.' I wasn't sure if he was kidding."Kidding was the last thing on Mr. Johansen's mind. He described the piece, and the process of writing it, as "just kind of heart-wrenching stuff, gut-wrenching. It's kind of helped me get to a place in my heart. It's not made to do anything else."On and off for months Mr. Johansen would record themes on a cheap keyboard and e-mail them to Mr. Coe. "I'd write a melody and send it to him — you know, 'I think this part should connect to that part,'" he said. Mr. Coe would notate the music, orchestrate it, create transitions, make a demo using sampled instruments and e-mail it back to Mr. Johansen.The resulting piece, propelled slowly forward by a descending melody that owes a debt to the "Swan" movement from Saint-Saëns's "Carnival of the Animals," hangs together, soaring and dipping, conjuring a moonlit landscape periodically darkened by clouds.As the orchestra filed out after rehearsal, Mr. Johansen asked about the piano that would be used at the concert. "I want that Rachmaninoff sound, kind of like Eric Carmen," he told Mr. Scro, referring to the composer of "All By Myself" and other overripe pop confections. Mr. Scro made some inquires and reported back."It's a Yamaha concert grand, a very good piano," he told Mr. Johansen. "It has that Rachmaninoff sound, that rock sound, that rock-maninoff sound.""That's beautiful," the composer said.M.I.A.Terminal 5 Surveying an ocean of sweaty faces on Thursday night at Terminal 5, a cavernous new club on far West 56th Street,  M.I.A. decided the company of her D.J. (Low B) and background singer (Cherry) wasn't quite enough. "I need some girls onstage to help me out," she said. Then she revised her statement: guys, too. There was an uncertain pause before the club's security team began helping people over and around the barricades.The invitation felt right. M.I.A. had just stomped and strutted through "Bucky Done Gun," one of the compulsively kinetic tracks from "Arular," her 2005 debut album. And if the sight of a few thousand fans chanting the song's chorus wasn't enough inspiration, there were lyrics like these: "Can I get control/Do you like me vulnerable/I'm armed and I'm equal/More fun for the people."Populism often takes the form of a battle cry for M.I.A., a k a Maya Arulpragasam, the former Sri Lankan refugee, longtime Londoner and part-time Brooklynite with a taste for head-rattling rhythm. The jostle of bodies seems to goad her on: poised at the lip of the now-crowded stage, she looked both elated and defiant. She sounded that way too, barking lines from "Bird Flu," a standout single off her second album, "Kala" (Interscope).The stage takeover lasted only one tune, but M.I.A. packed the show with others from "Kala," reveling in a barrage of sampled third-world signifiers: tribal drums and air-raid sirens, singing children and machine gun reports. "Paper Planes" employed a loop from "Straight to Hell" by the Clash; its hook was made up of four shotgun blasts, a cartridge reload and a cash-register ring. This came after the Nigerian rapper Afrikan Boy bounded onstage to reprise his verses on "Hussel," including a blunt challenge: "You think it's tough now? Come to Africa."Obviously there's something strange about any dance party this obsessed with social turmoil. But M.I.A. left little room for queasiness, whether she was darting about in her silver high-top sneakers, jabbing at a touch-screen computer or body-surfing the crowd. Even when her voice was swallowed by the thump of the music, her presence was huge.She called for more outside assistance during the encore, and got it, from Rye Rye, a Baltimore rapper who had performed an opening slot with DJ Blaqstarr. But M.I.A. didn't really need the help. She was unarmed but seemingly invulnerable, and the crowd was firmly under her control. NATE CHINEN UNKLEWebster HallThe producer-disc jockey James Lavelle appears in public behind a table full of equipment, as he did when his project Unkle played its first United States show as a band at Webster Hall on Thursday night. He can concentrate amid a barrage of flashing lights. He'd rather depend on programmed drumming than a flesh-and-blood drummer, and he treats a vocal as one more track in a mix rather than the center of attention. In other ways, however, he's the opposite of a typical dance-music producer.Instead of smiley-faced, head-bobbing electronic tracks — or the jagged revived punk-funk that has lately been designated as dance-rock — Mr. Lavelle gravitates toward glum minor-key anthems, especially on Unkle's third album, "War Stories" (Surrender All). It's a mixed album; some songs achieve their ominous grandeur, while others founder amid overblown self-pity. Mr. Lavelle is aiming not for dance clubs but for big, reverberant theaters, perhaps even arenas, along the lines of Pink Floyd or Depeche Mode.At Webster Hall, the band performed in front of a video screen, which supplied some absent guest vocalists, like Ian Astbury of the Cult. (Another of the album's singers, Gavin Clark, was in the live band, which also included the guitarist Joel Cadbury from the band South.) More often the screen showed explosions, lightning bolts, swirling colors and warplanes, underlining the grave tone of songs like "Broken": "I'm hit, I can feel the grit."In the course of the set, Unkle flipped through a history of British rock pomp, from psychedelia to Radiohead. Mr. Lavelle has clearly discovered the visceral, enveloping potential of guitars. With Unkle working as a band rather than a studio project, the texture of the songs metamorphosed as they went, from keyboards and beats to guitar turbulence, and the more frenetic they got the better they sounded. Now all Mr. Lavelle needs to do is write more songs worthy of their sonic and visual settings. JON PARELES ST. VINCENTKnitting Factory"And my name's Annie," said Annie Clark, after she introduced her bassist and her drummer and her violin player, but she's better known as St. Vincent. Thursday night had come and gone — it was nearly 2 a.m. — but the Knitting Factory stayed pretty full.Perhaps part of the reason was simple curiosity. Although Ms. Clark's set consisted almost solely of songs from the remarkable St. Vincent debut album, "Marry Me" (Beggar's Banquet), it was still unpredictable.That album shows off Ms. Clark at her nimblest: peeling off quick little guitar runs; singing lively countermelodies; switching genres with nearly every song, from neo-cabaret ballads to blippy indie-rock. And despite all the detours, "Marry Me" is elegant (almost) to a fault; even the most chaotic climaxes sound meticulous.At the Knitting Factory concert,  Ms. Clark went charging in the other direction. The show began, after an onstage sound check, with a scruffy version of "Jesus Saves, I Spend." A looped snippet of Ms. Clark's voice set the pace, and there were occasional squeals of feedback, which may or may not have been intentional. Judging from the way she kept gesturing about the sound levels (and from the fact that the violin was completely inaudible during a stomping, "Bennie and the Jets"-ish version of the album's title track), the sound check never really ended.So this was Ms. Clark at her scruffiest: unleashing squalls of electric guitar during an unaccompanied cover of the Beatles' "Dig a Pony"; leading the band through a downright grimy rendition of "Now. Now."; emphasizing all that's apocalyptic about "Paris Is Burning." It wasn't always pretty, but the overall effect was bewildering, in the best sense. The playful chanteuse is also a fearsome shredder; who knows what she'll be next? KELEFA SANNEH DEERHUNTER, NO AGE, Dan DeaconBowery BallroomBradford Cox was in a funk. Or, as he put it, "an existential dark cloud." But he was kidding. Sort of. He looked into the audience and saw more floor than he had seen before. "The more people that walk out ...", he said, trailing off. "It's dark, dark."This was one of the most eagerly anticipated concerts of the CMJ Music Marathon: a triple bill of No Age, Dan Deacon and Mr. Cox's band, Deerhunter, at Bowery Ballroom on Wednesday night. And it was, in the broadest sense of the word, a punk-rock show, dedicated to bands that make a noise, and sometimes a mess.During last year's CMJ, the Los Angeles duo No Age played for small crowds at a handful of thrilling unofficial showcases. Lots has happened since then: after a series of vinyl-only releases, the two members released a beguiling CD of highlights, "Weirdo Rippers" (FatCat), and landed a record deal with Sub Pop.Even so, it took No Age a while to win over the audience on Wednesday night. The band's specialty is a hollowed-out, opened-up variant of 1980s hardcore punk; the songs sound like antiestablishment polemics with all the polemicism — and, maybe not coincidentally, all the bass guitar — removed. Beneath Dean Spunt's start-stop drumming and the guitarist Randy Randall's fast chord changes lurks a sweet (and slightly mystical) faith in old punk pieties: a belief that noise can help create a better world, or at least the illusion of one. When the set ended with fans onstage, triumphant, it felt like a real — well, a real something.By contrast, Dan Deacon's set started with fans onstage. He's a one-man band based in Baltimore, and he likes to set up his electronics on the floor, where he can be pushed and pulled by his fans. The best and the worst thing about him is his exuberance. His tracks are crammed full of buzzing synthesizer lines and bristling beats and his own ridiculous vocals, often processed through pedals.The nonstop good cheer can be wearisome, and his set on Wednesday felt way too long. But when it comes to crowd control, he's a virtuoso. Apparently he can make any event feel like an illegal warehouse party. And when the full-contact dancing got too intense, he cleared out a huge space in the middle of the floor and sent fans on a relay race up and around the balcony.What's the opposite of good cheer? Whatever the answer, Deerhunter supplied plenty of it. The band, based in Atlanta, is known for hazy, off-kilter songs that sound both pretty and — to quote Mr. Cox — "dark, dark." In "Cryptograms," the title track from the mesmerizing album the band released this year, the instruments suddenly snapped into place, creating a metronomic groove that seemed to last forever.As the set progressed, Mr. Cox's mood seemed to darken, and there was something apocalyptic (and riveting) about watching the band plug away while fans wandered off. "I miss my family, I miss my mom, I miss my parents," he said, more than once. And as the show wound down, he asked, "Do you like duh music?" (That "duh" felt distinctly unfriendly.) He looked at the thinning crowd and reconsidered. "There's not enough of you left to know if you like duh music. It's a collective question." Unintentionally, perhaps, Deerhunter provided exactly what this weeklong parade needs more of: rain. KELEFA SANNEH CLASSICALFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.Opera'AIDA' (Saturday and Tuesday) Micaela Carosi (Aida) and Olga Borodina (Amneris) are now the female leads in the Met's extravagant and durable production. The tenor Stephen O'Mara will play Radames, replacing Marco Berti, who has withdrawn from remaining performances because of illness. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out Saturday; $65 to $175 remaining for Tuesday. (Bernard Holland)'CARMEN' (Friday and Sunday) Six feet tall and stunning, the mezzo Beth Clayton is a rare bird: a Carmen naturally able to project the character's tremendous power and sexiness, and incapable of the usual hip-swinging schtick. All she needs is a little more concentration on the purely musical side to help showcase her fine voice and turn her impressive Carmen into a great one. Scott Piper is alternately strong and wavering as Don José, and Carlos Archuleta sings for the first time with the company in the ungrateful role of Escamillo. (Was ever a hit tune so difficult to bring off well?).  Friday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 1:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Anne Midgette)'CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA' AND 'PAGLIACCI' (Saturday) The City Opera's current run of this beloved double bill comes to an end this weekend. The Stephen Lawless production updates a violent 19th-century rural love triangle to gritty postwar Italy. At 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Holland)'CENDRILLON' (Saturday and Thursday) City Opera has offered a number of versions of Cinderella, from Rossini's to Rodgers and Hammerstein's. This season, it's the turn of Massenet, whose pretty piece arrives here in a pretty production from Europe (by Renaud Doucet and André Barbe), with Cassandre Berthon making her company debut in the title role. Saturday at 1:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Midgette)'MACBETH' (Friday and Wednesday) In his Met debut the English director Adrian Noble has created a stylistically eclectic, grimly effective and, at times, intriguingly playful new production of "Macbeth," Verdi's breakthrough early masterpiece, last seen at the house in 1988. The modern-dress staging blends contemporary and melodramatic touches: The chorus of witches is portrayed as a coven of bag ladies in frumpy coats with bulging handbags. Though the baritone Zeljko Lucic is not the most menacing Macbeth, he sings with rich lyricism and burnished tone. The soprano Maria Guleghina has a hard edge to her sound these days. But she certainly has searing power as Lady Macbeth.  James Levine's exciting and insightful conducting is the highlight of the production. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $205 tonight, $80 to $175 for Wednesday. (Anthony Tommasini)'MADAMA BUTTERFLY' (Saturday) This is the last performance of the current revival of last year's headliner from the director Anthony Minghella. Scheduled as the opera's love interests are Patricia Racette and Roberto Alagna. At 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Holland)★ 'IL SANT'ALESSIO' (Monday and Tuesday) Stefano Landi's 1631 opera about the life of St. Alexis is said to be the first opera about a historical figure (as opposed to a Greek myth). William Christie, whose visits to New York with Les Arts Florissants are always season highlights for anyone interested in Baroque opera, restored this rarity to life in a 1996 Erato recording. He brings it to New York, semistaged by Benjamin Lazar, with a cast heavy in countertenors. (The original was sung by castratos.) At 8 p.m., Rose Theater, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $40 to $70. (Allan Kozinn)'DIE ZAUBERFLÖTE' (Monday and Thursday) The bears are the hit in Julie Taymor's bright pageant of a "Zauberflöte," in which swaying  puppets and colorful alchemical symbols are woven into a production that can sometimes overshadow the singers. This revival tries to restore the balance by bringing in the vibrant soprano Diana Damrau to do her first Paminas. Eric Cutler should be a respectable Tamino, and Stéphane Degout did such a fine job as Mercutio in "Roméo et Juliette" this season that there is extra interest in his Papageno. Kirill Petrenko conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $175. (Midgette)Classical Music★ OLE BOHN (Friday) Tributes to Edvard Grieg, who died 100 years ago, continue this season, notably at Scandinavia House in New York. The eminent Norwegian violinist Ole Bohn, who tours the world and has played major works written for him by Elliott Carter and other composers, will present a program of Grieg's three violin sonatas, with the pianist Geir Braaten. These rhapsodic and affecting works are not as well known as they deserve to be. At 8, Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, between 37th and 38th Streets, (212) 847-9740, scandinaviahouse.org; $15; $10 for members and students. (Tommasini)★ LE CONCERT DES NATIONS (Monday and Wednesday) One of the most justly anticipated highlights of New York's early-music season are visits by the eloquent viola da gamba maestro Jordi Savall and Le Concert des Nations, his period-instrument band. The concert on Monday in Zankel Hall features music by Lully, Saint-Colombe, Charpentier, Marais and Couperin. On Wednesday Mr. Savall will give a solo recital in Weill Recital Hall of works by English composers of the Renaissance period, including Tobias Hume and Simon Ives.  At 7:30 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $56 to $62 on Monday; $42 on Wednesday. (Vivien Schweitzer)★ 'ELGAR AND HIS WORLD' (Friday and Saturday) After two full weekends of concerts, lectures and panels this summer, the Bard Music Festival's thorough exploration of the music, life and times of Edward Elgar, the seminal British composer, continues this weekend. On Friday the American Symphony Orchestra (Leon Botstein conducting) performs Elgar's First Symphony and the Violin Concerto of his near-exact contemporary Charles Villiers Stanford; Saturday afternoon faculty and students from the Bard College Conservatory play chamber works by Elgar, John Ireland, Frank Bridge and Vaughan Williams. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 3 p.m., Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7900, bard.edu/bmf; $25 to $55. (Tommasini)★ ENSEMBLE ACJW (Tuesday) An awkward name for an excellent chamber music group. The initials stand for the Academy of Carnegie Hall, the Juilliard School and the Weill Music Center. The academy is a two-year fellowship program for top-notch postgraduate musicians who received extensive training; they also bring music to the public schools of New York. The academy players present concerts too, and this week's offers an enticing program with works by John Cage and Tan Dun, as well as Mozart's extraordinary "Gran Partita" Serenade for 13 Winds. At 7 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $15. (Tommasini)GUARNERI STRING QUARTET (Saturday) In 1900, when the series that became the Peoples'  Symphony Concerts got going, an individual ticket cost 10 cents. Amazingly, tickets for the 12 Saturday night concerts this season go for $9 each, which, adjusted for inflation over 107 years, is not that much of an increase. This essential series begins with the Guarneri in a program of quartets by Bartok, Haydn and Smetana. Washington Irving High School is a wonderfully homey and acoustically lively place to hear chamber music. At 8 p.m., Irving Place at 16th Street, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680, pscny.org. (Tommasini)★ ANGELA HEWITT (Friday and Sunday) Playing both books of Bach's "Well-Tempered Clavier" in a weekend is a tall order, although in recent years several pianists have undertaken it, some even preferring to plow through the full contrapuntal monument in a single day. Ms. Hewitt, a Canadian whose Bach performances in recent years have been uncommonly elegant and full of character, sensibly puts a day between the books, playing the first Friday and the second on Sunday. Friday at 7:30 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $38 to $48. (Kozinn)ANDREW MANZE AND RICHARD EGARR (Thursday) The violinist Andrew Manze and the pianist Richard Egarr (also both prominent conductors) continue their successful partnership, in which they recently recorded Schubert sonatas. Mr. Egarr and Mr. Manze, who frequently record and perform on period instruments, will use modern instruments for this concert, which features Bach's Violin Sonata in C minor (BWV 1017); Hubert Parry's Violin Sonata in D; Mozart's Violin Sonata in F (K. 376); and Schubert's "Duo" Sonata in A. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $36 to $44. (Schweitzer)MET CHAMBER ENSEMBLE (Sunday) Three eminent composers — Elliott Carter, Milton Babbitt and John Harbison — take up the speaking roles in Stravinsky's ever wonderful "Histoire du Soldat." James Levine and his Met players also perform music by the three. At 5 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $94. (Holland)MY LORD CHAMBERLAIN'S CONSORT (Saturday) This ensemble brings together experienced early-music players and singers — among them Drew Minter, countertenor; Philip Anderson and Grant Herreid, tenors; Marcia Young, soprano; Rosamund Morley, viol player; and Andy Rutherford, lutenist — for music of the Elizabethan lute-song composers, most notably John Dowland. The group will revisit some of its specialties in a 10th-anniversary program, as part of the New York Early Music Celebration. At 8 p.m., Church of St. Luke in the Fields, 487 Hudson Street, at Grove Street, West Village, (212) 749-2848, nyemc.com; $15 and $20. (Kozinn)★ NEWBERRY CONSORT (Sunday) Now in its 25th year, this ensemble, based at the Newberry Library in Chicago — but drawing heavily on musicians from Boston's thriving early-music scene — is offering a concert of Elizabethan music as part of the Music Before 1800 series. Included on the program "Shakespeare's Songbook" are works by Dowland, Bachelar, Cornish, Morley, Jones and Edwards, as well as variations on popular Elizabethan dance tunes by the group's violinist, David Douglass. At 4 p.m., Corpus Christi Church, 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 666-9266, mb1800.org; $25 to $40; $20 to $35 for students and 62+. (Kozinn)NINE CIRCLES CHAMBER THEATER (Wednesday) Art of the Himalayas and music of the West may seem an odd juxtaposition, but the violinist Gil Morgenstern is seeking to build a bridge. On Wednesday he and his Nine Circles Chamber Theater begin Reflections, a new series of what they call "interdisciplinary performing art" at the Rubin Museum of Art. The first performance, "Sacred Landscapes," features music in which composers confront the world around them, from Dvorak's "American" Quartet to David Wilde's "Cellist of Sarajevo," with works by Bright Sheng and Osvaldo Golijov. At 7 p.m., 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $20. (Midgette)ORCHESTRA OF ST. LUKE'S (Sunday) This exemplary ensemble, conducted by Roberto Abbado, performs works by American composers written during the last 70 years, including "In Memory" by Joan Tower, St. Luke's composer in residence. Also on the program is Barber's ever popular, lyrical Violin Concerto — an ideal showcase for the glowing tone and technical gifts of Joshua Bell — and the world premiere of the one-movement Violin Concerto by Jay Greenberg. Unsurprisingly, this 15-year-old composer has yet to develop an original voice, but he's certainly a precocious talent. The program concludes with Haydn's Symphony No. 93. At 2 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $24 to $79. (Schweitzer)ITZHAK PERLMAN (Saturday) Mr. Perlman begins a three-concert series featuring recent alumni of the Perlman Music Program, which tutors gifted young musicians. The concert on Saturday includes Mozart's Viola Quintet in G minor, Steve Reich's Triple Quartet (conducted by Patti Monson) and Tchaikovsky's "Souvenir de Florence." Mr. Perlman will perform in the Mozart and Tchaikovsky alongside program participants. At 8 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $60. (Schweitzer)DAVID SANFORD (Friday) As a child of the 1960s, this composer draws on rock, jazz and rhythm and blues influences freely in his works for classical ensembles. This installment of the Miller Theater's Composer Portraits series includes his "22 Part I" (1995), "Seventh Avenue Kaddish" (2002), "Alchemy," "Link Chapel" and "V-Reel" (all 2003), and Scherzo Grosso (2005). Matt Haimovitz, a cellist whose tastes are as eclectic as Mr. Sanford's, performs with the Pittsburgh Ensemble. At 8 p.m., Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com; $25; $15 for students. (Kozinn)ST. PETERSBURG PHILHARMONIC (Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Though underrated in this country, Yuri Temirkanov is one of the greatest living conductors. His home turf is Russia, both geographically and musically, so hearing him play with his own orchestra, which he took over in 1988, is a special pleasure. The programs this week focus on Prokofiev ("Alexander Nevsky") and touch on Mussorgsky ("Songs and Dances of Death," with Larissa Diadkova), but also feature Beethoven's Violin Concerto (with Julia Fischer) and Schumann's Piano Concerto (with Nelson Freire). Sunday at 3 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $21 to $79. Tuesday through Thursday at 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $37 to $126. (Midgette)TOKYO STRING QUARTET (Saturday) This venerable group kicks off its fifth season as the 92nd Street Y's quartet in residence with Haydn's Quartet in B flat (Op. 50, No. 1) and Tchaikovsky's Quartet No. 3. The program also includes the New York premiere of "Primera Luz" by Lera Auerbach, a Russian-born and Juilliard-trained composer, pianist and poet. At 8 p.m., 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $40. (Schweitzer)The Viennese composer Alexander Zemlinsky faced frequent rejection because of his Jewish background, his looks and his music, which was banned by the Nazis, from whom he fled. His relatively conservative idiom found no favor with modernists either. Even the mirror rejected him. Zemlinsky fell in love with his beautiful young Alma Schindler, who was initially repulsed, then fascinated, by his notorious ugliness. She toyed with him briefly before dumping him for Mahler.But Zemlinsky has found a champion in James Conlon, music director of the Los Angeles Opera and the Ravinia Festival, who frequently programs works by composers (among them Viktor Ullmann, Karl Amadeus Hartmann and Erwin Schulhoff) who were suppressed by the Third Reich. On Thursday at Avery Fisher Hall, after introducing the work from the podium, Mr. Conlon led the New York Philharmonic in its first performance of Zemlinsky's one-act opera "A Florentine Tragedy," based on a short play by Oscar Wilde.The protagonist is the merchant Simone, who returns home to find his wife, Bianca, betraying him with Guido, a handsome young prince. Simone murders Guido, which proves a weird aphrodisiac. She is as impressed with her husband's strength as he is with her beauty, and they reconcile over the body.Zemlinsky, Arnold Schoenberg's brother-in-law and teacher, accompanies this dark tale with opulent textures, surging climaxes and swirling, sensual colors in a late-Romantic language that echoes Strauss and Mahler. There was no doubt that this is a composer Mr. Conlon believes in, and it was a terrific performance, although it was sometimes difficult to hear the singers through Zemlinsky's sensuously dense orchestration and rich sound.The baritone James Johnson, making his debut with the orchestra, was admirable in the grueling role of Simone, a role he sang at Bard College in July. Also making her Philharmonic debut was Tatiana Pavlovskaya, who was convincing as Bianca, singing with an emotive, dark-hued mezzo. When, referring to her husband, she sang, "I hate him, body and soul," you believed it. Anthony Dean Griffey, whose powerful, lyrical tenor soared above the orchestra, was an earnest and passionate Guido.Preceding these swashbuckling surges were the Mozartean colors of Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 2 in B flat, which opened the program. The 27-year-old American pianist Jonathan Biss was the fleet-fingered soloist, and he played with the poise, maturity and elegance that have already become his trademarks. Mr. Biss was graceful in the cadenza, soulful in the lovely Adagio and playfully sparkling in the Rondo.Mr. Conlon began the piece with a lively pulse and lean phrasing, emphasizing its classicism and lighthearted spirit, a notable contrast to the devastating anguish of the composer's later works.WHAT stands about 30 feet tall, weighs 21,000 pounds and has 3,721 pipes? It's the Flentrop tracker organ at the Performing Arts Center at Purchase College, and it's set to make a rare appearance on Nov. 3 and 4 when the Westchester Philharmonic performs Saint-Saëns's Symphony No. 3 in C minor (Op. 78), also called "Organ Symphony."For that to occur, the organ, about 30 feet wide and encased in African mahogany, has to make the arduous journey from the room where it is housed into the adjacent concert hall. According to Dan B. Sedgwick, director of operations at the Performing Arts Center, the organ and the custom-designed steel platform on which it rests will be buoyed one-half inch off the ground when air casters underneath are inflated. "Then we get a group of people and push," he said. The organ is only eight feet deep to facilitate its portability, but still the task requires close to six hours and is undertaken only two or three times a year.For the Westchester Philharmonic, it's worth the work. This concert marks the fifth occasion the orchestra has used the organ; the first was in 1989, when the same symphony was performed. It will be played by Robert E. Fertitta, who retired this year after nearly two decades on the faculty of Purchase's Conservatory of Music. Mr. Fertitta, 55, also played the symphony in 1989.The organ, stamped "D.A. Flentrop 1966" in gold lettering above its three keyboards, is one of the largest Flentrop instruments in the eastern United States. Unlike most Flentrop organs, whose pipes are lead and pewter, its pipes are copper — "an unusual choice," Mr. Sedgwick said, "probably partially aesthetic."The organ contains 61 ranks, or sets of pipes that produce a specific timbre, and 49 stop controls, which enable the  organist to control what ranks are played and thus produce different sounds. "It includes all the stops that are quintessential to playing organ music from the French baroque school," Mr. Fertitta said.Built in 1966 at the Flentrop Orgelbouw company in the Netherlands, the organ was originally destined for Carnegie Hall. "But something happened,"  Mr. Sedgwick said. "Legend has it that it was three inches too tall for the intended space, and Isaac Stern, the guiding light of Carnegie Hall for many years, was not fond of organ music anyway. So they sent it back to the Netherlands."Through the efforts of  Esther Simon, a philanthropist and member of the Carnegie Hall Board of Trustees from 1965 to 1983, the organ was later given to Purchase College. It was installed in 1978 when the Performing Arts Center was completed, not far from Mrs. Simon's home in Rye. "They redesigned a part of the stage to accommodate it," Mr. Sedgwick said, "and built a separate temperature- and humidity-controlled room where the organ now lives."The 36-minute "Organ Symphony" is the finale of a concert entitled "Entre Nous," a program of three French compositions including  Chabrier's "Espana" and  Ravel's "Daphnis et Chloé"  Suite No. 2. The concert is the second in the Westchester Philharmonic's 25th anniversary season, the last season in which the orchestra's founder and music director, Paul Lustig Dunkel, will conduct.Performances will take place on Saturday, Nov. 3, at 8 p.m., and Sunday, Nov. 4, at 3 p.m. Ticket holders can also attend "Tuning Up" miniconcerts  before  the performances on  Saturday at 6:45 p.m. and on Sunday at 1:45 p.m. The orchestra's rehearsal at the Performing Arts Center on Saturday at 10 a.m. is open to the public and free. Details are at www.westchesterphil.org.THURSTON MOORE isn't prone to sentimentality, but there are times when what he calls "rightful romanticism" gets him in its grip.Mostly this happens when he is discussing the backdrop of his career as a pioneering  rock 'n' roller: In the early '80s, when he left his hometown, Bethel, Conn.,  to form the acclaimed alternative   band Sonic Youth in Manhattan, he found himself in the center of a creative force field so fierce no suburb could contain it."The city in those days, especially the downtown scene, was wild territory,"  said Mr. Moore, who recently released the solo album "Trees Outside the Academy" (on the independent label Ecstatic Peace!). "New York attracted this dynamic array of people — people from Jersey, people from Connecticut, people from all over who recognized this idea of a bohemian culture and were interested in creating their own experience. It was really kind of cool and beautiful."Some of that energy can still be found in Brooklyn, he said, but gone are the days when clubs like CBGB and Max's Kansas City defined the music scene.  Rock acts hoping to bust out of the New York suburbs and onto the charts  no longer need to conquer the city first.Instead of converging in Manhattan to join forces, forge a scene and leave another storied club in their wake, they are making music in their own towns, on their own terms. The Internet has become an indispensable promotional  tool and link to other musicians.  Web sites like backpage.com, MySpace and TagWorld make scouting for producers or replacing rogue drummers as simple as sending out an e-bulletin; no flier-posting in sticky-floored nightspots necessary.The new  formula for launching a rock career  has  indirectly delivered a shot of cool to a number of suburbs. My Chemical Romance's jittery sound comes directly out of Belleville, N.J. Taking Back Sunday's string of gold-selling albums have issued straight from Amityville, on Long Island. And although John Mayer made a name for himself in Atlanta coffeehouses, he cut his musical teeth in his hometown, Fairfield, Conn., where copies of  his first recording, an unnamed eight-song tape made when he had just finished high school, now sell for hundreds on eBay.While some bands in the past may  have been quick to disown their staid suburban roots, emerging from the land of picket fences and Little League fields  is now more often a point of pride.Just ask Matt White."My mom calls me four times a day — I'm very big into family, "  Mr. White, a 27-year-old singer-songwriter, said recently from across a booth at the Royal Cliffs diner in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., a restaurant he has been coming to since he was in sixth grade. Another thing he's big into is not coming across like a jaded  city guy. He has already won raves in People and Details magazines for his September release "Best Days" (Geffen Records). He has also been named one of Rolling Stone's "10 artists to watch" for his relatable love songs. But Mr. White maintains a laid-back un-self-consciousness that he says could only have come from growing up the way he did, where he did."In New York there's a certain hip factor, but I'm not that hip," he said. "The hipsters don't really like me too much. Because, you know, it's pop music — I'm not like the Strokes."Mr. White grew up in a musical family in Englewood. "We're kind of sandwiched-in with New York in this part of Jersey, but we're very Jersey," he said. "It's definitely Bruce land. You can't be a music kid here without being inspired by Springsteen."Before Mr. White talks about opening for Mr. Mayer or Sheryl Crow, or about having his song "Best Days" selected for the "Shrek the Third" soundtrack, he talks about his family, including a grandmother who is 89, a masseuse and lives in South Orange."My grandma was one of the first women orchestra leaders," he said. "And my dad is from Paterson, which is like being from Brooklyn. It's really close-knit. People from Paterson recognize each other all over the world."If family doesn't factor as heavily into other suburban musicians' identities, a sense of place does."Any success we've taken with us comes from being from Connecticut," said Kurtis John, the mohawk-topped lead singer of the Last Goodnight, a six-piece pop band based in Enfield.The group released its debut album, "Poison Kiss," on Virgin Records   in August. Its current single, "Pictures of You," has reached No. 19 on the Billboard Hot Adult Top 40 chart. According to iTunes, it was  downloaded free 420,000 times in the first week of October."We've played New York a lot, but our story didn't come out of New York or Boston," said Mr. John, 27.  "Everything we had that mattered came from building around Connecticut."Mr. John traced the band's progression from a bunch of Enfield High School kids desperate to play for anyone who would have them in the late '90s to a  musically tight outfit called upon in 2003 to open for Avril Lavigne at the Connecticut Expo Center in Hartford.  He said the suburbs are now a band's best bet for honing a sound that gets noticed nationally."You can focus on your music a lot more when you're from somewhere like Enfield," he said from the road the day before an October homecoming show at Lake Compounce amusement park in Bristol, Conn. (The Last Goodnight will also play at Webster Theater in Hartford  on Nov. 21, as the opening act for Elliott Yamin.)"We used to play in the basement every weekend, and we loved it," Mr. John said. "It's really hard to keep a band together in the city — everybody wants to do their own thing, and then you start splitting up and changing members. We grew up together, and we stick together. Why move to the city when you live two hours away?"Or, as bands from Long Island might ask, why move to Manhattan when there is so much credibility to gain  in your  hometown?"Even though it's easier to say you're from New York when you're in a place like this, we always say we're from Long Island," said Ryan Hunter, the 20-year-old frontman of the Merrick-based Envy on the Coast, during an early October tour stop in England. "There's definitely such a thing as Long Island pride — there's a certain honesty and a certain rawness to the music that's there in Brand New, Taking Back Sunday, Glassjaw. We're inspired by all those bands."Early buzz about "Lucy Gray" (Photo Finish), Envy's debut CD, released in August, landed the five-man band a spot on this summer's Warped Tour. The act owes its  out-of-the-gate success,  Mr. Hunter said,  to early fans who routinely  went to see them  at  V.F.W. halls on Long Island  and later followed them to Manhattan."For a while we hated coming to New York to do shows," he said. "We had to deal with parking and all these mundane details when we were so close to home, where you don't have to deal with that stuff. There would always be this awkward buildup, no real climax. And then, fortunately, fans from Long Island came out, and that made us feel at home."In a reversal of the pattern, the Brooklyn-based group Fire Flies, a four-piece alternative band that formed at  Purchase College in 2002 and beat out 6,000 international acts to win the Emergenza Festival  in Germany this summer, counts its days at Purchase as crucial to its development. The frontman, Dan Romer, a Brooklyn  native,  said he considered his home borough  mostly somewhere to live affordably within proximity of many  small places to play (including  Crash Mansion in Manhattan, where Fire Flies recently attracted a packed house to celebrate the release of its debut, "Two New Sciences," on its own Asteroid B-612 Records). Purchase, Mr. Romer  said, is where the band won recognition  and a  fan base."We became a band around a bunch of bands," said Mr. Romer, 24, who cited Moby, Regina Spektor  and Langhorne Slim as former Purchase students.  "Purchase is this incredible school, with this incredible songwriting program.  It was the most creative environment I've ever been in. And nobody played outside college. That was the only place everybody played."Now, despite shows at  Manhattan clubs like Crash Mansion and Arlene's Grocery, Fire Flies routinely heads back to Purchase: On Nov. 8 they will play a show at the  university's student center. They will also perform at Tina's in Stormville, N.Y., on Oct. 21 and at Spark Contemporary Art Space in Syracuse  on Nov. 9."Shows  in the suburbs are pretty important," said Alex Nackman, a 23-year-old singer-songwriter who lives  in Manhattan but was raised in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y.  "You realize through touring you have to go to small cities."Mr. Nackman has had a taste of success opening a 2005 Manhattan show at the Living Room for Norah Jones and getting his introspective songs played on MTV, but he finds himself playing as many small shows near his hometown as in his adopted city. He will appear at the Space in Hamden, Conn., on  Nov. 4."I started out with the mentality that I have to do a lot of big cities," he recently explained over coffee in Manhattan  before heading to Sleepy Hollow to work on songs for a forthcoming album in his parents' basement. "But getting into those smaller areas provides a nice way to connect with people. It's a pace thing — in the suburbs, you can have a drink with people after the show. In the city, people stop in and leave pretty quickly."Or else, said Dylan St. Clark, lead singer of the Jersey City-based classic rock band the Milwaukees, they stop in and check one another out without much regard for who's performing."In the city everybody has their guard up — no one admits when they like something, and that rubs me the wrong way," Mr. St. Clark said  between shows throughout the Midwest to promote the group's CD "American Anthems Vol. 1" (City Desk Records), released in  September. "In the suburbs, people come out to hear rock 'n' roll. For the band in those smaller-city settings, it's not about who's cooler than who, or who can shoegaze best. It's about playing music."Mr. St. Clark, 29, plays a regular gig with his three bandmates at Bar Majestic  in Jersey City every other Thursday. When the Milwaukees do play city shows, he said, they are often better prepared than their urban counterparts.  "We show up in a van," he said, "and guys in New York don't have a van, so they want to borrow all our equipment."Also, he said: "In Jersey City, we have our own space, the room where we write and where we became a good band. In the city, we'd be sharing a room with 20 other bands. They'd give us from like 11 to 11:30 on Wednesdays to practice, and that's not going to work for us."If the suburbs are on their way to outshining the city in the race to produce rock greatness — if stability and humility are giving chicness and bohemianism a run for their money — certain regions may not have shucked off all their cool-squelching stereotypes just yet."One thing that's great about being a band from New Jersey is there's a toughness associated with it," Mr. St. Clark said, reflecting on why he would never move to Manhattan. "When you tell an audience you're from Jersey, people automatically assume your dad worked in a factory and drank six beers a night."Bands from Connecticut, he said, don't have it quite so good. "Tell an audience you're from Connecticut, and they're still going to think your dad's the president of Merrill Lynch."Some 5,000 fans gave an enthusiastic welcome to the R&B singer Beyoncé, above, when she began her world tour with a spirited two-hour performance on Saturday night in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, The Associated Press reported. The concert was presented as part of the country's yearlong celebration of its 2,000th year according to the Coptic calendar. Ethiopia is not usually impressed by Western music, and the audience gave only a lukewarm reception to the rapper Ludacris, the opening act. "Rap music doesn't suit Ethiopia," said Michael Melake, 36, a local music promoter. "Ethiopians need a melody. Rap music is all about the message, and we don't identify with that. It's all about the black American experience, and we don't relate to that." As for Beyoncé's popularity, Enoch Nicano, 30, a nightclub owner, offered an explanation: "She's hot," he said. "She's more than hot."
