UNTIL a few weeks ago it seemed like one of the few happy stories to emerge from an otherwise difficult year in hip-hop. UGK, the Port Arthur, Tex., duo that influenced a generation of Southern rappers, returned after a five-year hiatus. They came back bearing a sublime single, "Int'l Players Anthem (I Choose You)." And they came back bearing a great double album, "Underground Kingz" (Jive/Zomba), which made its debut atop Billboard's album chart.Then, on Dec. 4, the news arrived: Pimp C — the duo's flamboyant half, a slick drawler and an even slicker producer — had been found dead in his hotel room. His bereaved musical partner, Bun B, gave a handful of eloquent interviews, trying to explain what he had lost, what fans had lost."I appreciate the concern," he told Vibe. "But I wouldn't ask anyone to stop their life, because Pimp would've wanted us all to keep grinding."If you're looking for a two-word motto for hip-hop in 2007, you could do worse than that: "Keep grinding." This was the year when the gleaming hip-hop machine — the one that minted a long string of big-name stars, from Snoop Dogg to OutKast — finally broke down, leaving rappers no alternative but to work harder, and for fewer rewards. Newcomers arrived with big singles and bigger hopes, only to fall off the charts after selling a few hundred thousand copies, if that. Hip-pop  hybrids dominated the radio, but rappers themselves seemed like  underground figures, for the first time in nearly two decades.Sales are down all over, but hip-hop has been hit particularly hard. Rap sales fell 21 percent from 2005 to 2006, and that trend seems to be continuing. It's the inevitable aftermath, perhaps, of the genre's vertiginous rise in the 1990s, during which a series of breakout stars — Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Tupac Shakur, the Notorious B.I.G. — figured out that they could sell millions without shaving off their rough edges. By 1997 the ubiquity of Puff Daddy helped cement hip-hop's new image: the rapper as tycoon. Like all pop-music trends, like all economic booms, this one couldn't last.This was a bad year for hip-hop sales, but it wasn't necessarily a bad year for the genre. The scrappy New York independent Koch flourished, releasing a couple of great CDs by major-label refugees: "Return of the Mac," by Prodigy from Mobb Deep, and "Walkin' Bank Roll," by Project Pat. (Koch also released "We the Best," a sanctioned mixtape by DJ Khaled that produced a couple of hip-hop hits, and "The Brick: Bodega Chronicles," the well-received debut album from Joell Ortiz.)And then there is Turf Talk, a loudmouthed upstart from Vallejo, Calif., who made arguably the year's most exciting hip-hop album, "West Coast Vaccine (The Cure)." It came out through Sick Wid' It Records, which is run by his cousin, the rapper E-40. (The album was released through a distribution deal with Navarre, which sold its music distribution business to Koch in May.) And despite Turf Talk's flamboyant rhymes, the album has pretty much remained a secret. Without a national radio hit or even a proper music video, Turf Talk has promoted the CD mainly through West Coast regional shows, from San Diego to Tacoma, Wash.Reached by telephone at his home in Concord, Calif., Turf Talk tried to put the best spin on a mixed-up year. "The independent game is starting to shine again," he said. But when pressed, he said he would love to cross over to the mainstream, speaking in the third person: "Turf Talk wants to be known all across the world."A few years ago that might have seemed like a reasonable goal, and an attainable one. During the boom the industry was flooded with scowling optimists: small-time hustlers with dreams of big-time success. And some dreams came true. In 1998 Juvenile went from a New Orleans secret to a pop radio staple, selling five million copies of "400 Degreez"; two years later, Nelly came from nowhere (actually St. Louis) to sell six million copies of "Country Grammar." Overall CD sales peaked in 2000, and by then even second-tier major-label rappers were routinely earning gold plaques for shipping half a million CDs.Because hip-hop is so intensely self-aware, and self-reflexive, it came to be known as big-money music, a genre obsessed with its own success. If we are now entering an age of diminished commercial expectations, that will inevitably change how hip-hop sounds too.How bad are the numbers? Well, no rapper was more diminished by 2007 than 50 Cent, who challenged Kanye West to a sales battle and lost. His solid but not thrilling recent album, "Curtis" (Shady/Aftermath/Interscope), has sold about 1.2 million copies, according to Nielsen SoundScan; considering that he's supposed to be the genre's biggest star, that's a disaster. (His 2005 album, "The Massacre," sold more than five million.) In fact "Curtis" has sold about the same as T. I.'s "T. I. vs. T. I. P." (Atlantic), the underwhelming and underperforming follow-up to his great 2006 album, "King," which sold about 1.6 million.This year veterans like Jay-Z and Wu-Tang Clan also returned, pleasing old fans but not, for the most part, making new ones. And Lil Wayne released another slew of great mixtapes  — available for free download, not for sale. Meanwhile Mr. West's "Graduation" (Roc-A-Fella/Island Def Jam), which stands at 1.8 million sold and counting, is the only hip-hop album of the year that really seems like a hit, although he loves to portray himself as outside the hip-hop mainstream. Only one problem: After a year when the hitmaker Fabolous and the bohemian Common sold about equally, as did the BET favorite Yung Joc and the indie-rap alumnus Talib Kweli, it's not clear that there's still a hip-hop mainstream to be outside.And eager newcomers discovered that the definition of success has changed. Rich Boy, Shop Boyz, Plies, Hurricane Chris and Soulja Boy Tell'em all released major-label debuts, buoyed by big, lovable hits: "Throw Some D's," "Party Like a Rockstar," "Shawty," "A Bay Bay" and "Crank That (Soulja Boy)."  But of those only Soulja Boy has managed to sell half a million CDs.  Hurricane Chris's disappointing CD, "51/50 Ratchet" (Polo Grounds/J Records), has sold only about 80,000 copies. To a major label that number is almost indistinguishable from zero. (Despite the hit the No. 1 chart debut and the half-decade of anticipation, UGK's triumphant double album hasn't reached the half-million mark either.)Hip-hop has always had a complicated relationship with full-length albums. They're both too long (for impatient hit lovers) and too short (for ephemera- obsessed mixtape listeners). And even though the South has been hip-hop's most fertile region since the 1990s, the  industry, based in New York and Los Angeles, harbors a lingering anti-Southern bias. Southern rappers are often viewed as one-hit wonders, and that can be a self-fulfilling prophecy. By the time Rich Boy, from Mobile, Ala., tried to drum up interest in his excellent fourth single, "Let's Get This Paper," it seemed everybody had already moved on.At least independent-label rappers have no one to blame. Turf Talk knew from the start that he would have to fight for his album, which he released in June. "I had a lot of hopes for 'West Coast Vaccine,' that's why I'm still pushing it now," he said, adding that he was finalizing plans for a video. The song he chose was "Popo's," a sleek and infectious collaboration with E-40, who adds a memorable touch: a thunderous "Oooh!" In his mesmerizing verses, Turf Talk raps about selling drugs and avoiding the police. His breathless rhymes  — "I'm tryna stack every dollar," he pants — evoke not a kingpin's confidence but a survivor's tenacity.It's easy to romanticize Turf Talk's grass-roots approach: his do-it-yourself video shoot, his evident pride in how much he has accomplished on his own, his commitment to the family business. But for him the promise of exposure and the long shot at stardom are too tempting to reject."I love the independent money," he said. "I'm living good, I drive nice cars. But right now, if you asked me, I'd say, 'Turf Talk wants to  go major.' Because you can always come back to independent."That's what Prodigy discovered. Last year his duo, Mobb Deep, flopped with "Blood Money," a misconceived CD on 50 Cent's label, G Unit, an Interscope imprint. This year he went independent for "Return of the Mac," a hallucinogenic, willfully obscure solo album that evokes the grimy old New York, and the grimy old Prodigy too. (It sold about 130,000 copies.) He has a new album scheduled for next year, though he pleaded guilty in October to gun possession and was sentenced to three and a half years. His new single, "ABC's," begins with a halfway defensive boast: "It don't matter who poppin' for the moment/P is forever." If you're not making hits, why not claim to be making history?Like Prodigy, Project Pat is a major-label refugee. He emerged from Memphis in the late '90s and swiftly took advantage of the hip-hop boom. "Chickenhead," his memorable but medium-sized hit (it peaked at No. 24 on Billboard's Hot R&B/Hip-Hop chart), helped his 2001 major-label album, "Mista Don't Play: Everythangs Workin," sell nearly 1.1 million copies. (Five years ago, in other words, Project Pat sold about as well as 50 Cent sells today.)After a prison sentence and an underperforming major-label comeback, Project Pat made his Koch debut with "Walkin' Bank Roll." The boast in the title track is a defiant (and typically absurd) response to his diminished commercial success: "I'm a walkin' bank roll/You can rubber-band me," he keeps shouting, and his glee is infectious. It's a weird, funny little album; though it has sold only about 40,000 copies, it feels triumphant.Is it possible to hear a shrug over the phone? Project Pat, when asked about his newfound independence, seemed profoundly unimpressed. "It's the same old, same old," he shouted, over the roar of a Mortal Kombat game, though he conceded, "People say they liked it better." He said he was planning his next album and gearing up for more live dates, which are crucial for independent acts. "Alaska — yessirrr,  Anchorage," he said, sounding a bit like the eccentric rapper from the CDs. "They asked for me per-son-al-ly."Under-the-radar releases, weird tour schedules, modest sales figures: none of this is new. The success of Southern hip-hop in the last decade was built on a foundation of independent and independent-minded rappers, many of whom worked with the scrappy regional distributor Southwest Wholesale, which is now closed, like many of the little shops it used to serve. In an earlier era these regional scenes were farm teams for the industry, grooming the top players and then sending them up to the big leagues. But what if there are no big leagues anymore? What if there's no major label willing or able to help Turf Talk get his platinum plaque? Would his next album sound as brash? Will his musical descendants be as motivated? The mainstream hip-hop industry relies on a thriving underground, but isn't the reverse also true?Eventually, a (new?) group of executives will find a business model that doesn't depend on shiny plastic discs, or digital tracks bundled together to approximate them. But for now the major league is starting to look a lot like the minor one. And in ways good and bad and utterly unpredictable, rappers may have to reconsider their place in the universe, and their audience. Some will redouble their commitment to nonsense, like Project Pat. Some will wallow in their misery, like Prodigy. Some will merely revel in their own loudmouthiness, like Turf Talk, hoping someone will pay attention. But if sales keep falling, more and more rappers will have to face the fact that they aren't addressing a crowd, just a sliver of one.On Oct. 14, less than two months before Pimp C's death, there was another death in the Houston hip-hop family. His name was Big Moe, and he died of a heart attack. He was a much more local figure than Pimp C: a crooner turned rapper and an associate of DJ Screw, who popularized the art of remixing records by slowing them down. (DJ Screw died in 2000.) Big Moe's best tracks are sublime and disorienting. His was a huge, wobbly sing- rapping voice, often paired with slowed-down drums and lyrics extolling the pleasures of cough syrup.Big Moe eventually got himself a deal, but his odd and entertaining 2002 major- label debut, "Purple World" (Priority/Capitol), quickly disappeared, and soon he was back to independent releases. It's no slight to his legacy to say that when news of his death arrived in October, even most hip-hop fans didn't know who he was. That's all right. Music that seems lost — there's a head-spinning selection on "Big Moe Classics Volume One" (Wreckshop)  — will be found, over and over again. And after this dispiriting year, it's not hard to admire Big Moe's little career. He made secrets, not hits, but so what? He kept grinding.Philip B. Dusenberry, the advertising executive who oversaw the 1980s Pepsi commercial in which Michael Jackson's hair was accidentally set on fire, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71.The cause of his death was lung cancer, for which he had received treatment for a year, according to Roy Elvove, a spokesman for the advertising firm BBDO.Mr. Dusenberry oversaw the teams at BBDO, an ad agency in the Omnicom Group, that coined famous taglines like "The choice of a new generation" for Pepsi, "We bring good things to life" for General Electric and "It's everywhere you want to be" for Visa.Throughout his career, Mr. Dusenberry emphasized entertainment in TV ad spots, believing that human stories were more attention-grabbing than product details."I'm always going to be searching for emotion," Mr. Dusenberry said in an interview with The New York Times in 1986. "In an age when most products aren't very different, the difference is often in the way people feel about the product."In one Pepsi commercial that attracted national attention in 1985, Geraldine A. Ferraro, the 1984 Democratic nominee for vice president, sat with her two daughters and talked about life."There's one choice I'll never regret," Ms. Ferraro told them. "Being a mother."Most recently, Mr. Dusenberry worked as a volunteer on a team that created the "Generous Nation" public service announcement that featured the line, "Don't almost give. Give."Philip Bernard Dusenberry was born on April 28, 1936, in Brooklyn, the eldest child of a cab driver. He attended Emory & Henry College, in Virginia, on a baseball scholarship, but he dropped out after the athletic program and his scholarship were discontinued.After taking voice lessons to try to lose his Brooklyn accent, Mr. Dusenberry worked as a radio disc jockey. He got his first taste of writing for commercials when the station manager asked him to fill in for the ad writer.Mr. Dusenberry followed a radio colleague to BBDO, which was then called Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn. One of his early commercials for Gillette Right Guard is still remembered as a standout spot in the 1960s. It featured two men chatting through a bathroom medicine chest.Mr. Dusenberry rose to prominence at BBDO in the 1980s, when he was executive creative director. The advertising industry began a wave of consolidations during those years, and many advertising executives were afraid that the trend might hurt creativity. Mr. Dusenberry, on the other hand, publicly supported the idea of mergers. "Bigness is not an enemy," he told The Times in 1986.Mr. Dusenberry was an early advocate of using cinematic techniques and special effects in TV spots, and he often cast celebrities in ads. PepsiCo was one of his longtime clients, and the ads starred celebrities like Lionel Richie, Don Johnson, Madonna and Michael J. Fox.Mr. Jackson was sent to the hospital in 1984 while taping a Pepsi commercial, after special effects meant to produce smoke accidentally exploded. In one negotiation with Mr. Jackson for a Pepsi ad, Mr. Dusenberry demanded that the singer not wear sunglasses in the spot, according to Mr. Dusenberry's memoir, "One Great Insight Is Worth a Thousand Good Ideas," which was originally called "Then We Set His Hair on Fire."His ads were known for their compelling story lines."He does the sort of commercials that you call your wife and kids in from the other room to watch by saying, 'It's on again,'" said John F. Bergin, the vice chairman of McCann-Erickson Worldwide, told The Times in 1986. "He simply comes up with magic."Mr. Dusenberry's focus on advertising as entertainment was prescient of future shifts in advertising. Today, many advertising agencies promote advertainment, commercials that are entertaining in their own right and are sought out by consumers rather than avoided.Mr. Dusenberry also dabbled in the film business. He was a co-author of the screenplay for the movies "Hail to the Chief," a 1973 political satire, and "The Natural," starring Robert Redford. President Ronald Reagan hired him to work on his campaign commercials and the film that introduced Mr. Reagan at the Republican National Convention in 1984.After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in New York, Mr. Dusenberry led the team that made "The New York Miracle" public service campaign to lift the spirits of New Yorkers. And, in 2002, he oversaw the work of several agencies that designed ads to support President Bush's USA Freedom Corps campaign, which encouraged Americans to volunteer.When Mr. Dusenberry retired in 2002, he was chairman of BBDO North America. BBDO's New York office more than doubled its billings under his leadership and won hundreds of awards.He was inducted in 2002 into the Advertising Hall of Fame, in Washington. In October, he was inducted into the Creative Hall of Fame at the One Club, an organization in New York that promotes excellence in advertising.Mr. Dusenberry is survived by his wife, Susan; a stepson, Ben Procter; a daughter-in-law, Ilana Sparrow; a brother, Harry, and his wife, Marcy; a brother, Joseph; a sister, Jean Driscoll, and her husband, Jack.Ernest C. Withers had not been a Memphis police officer very long when he saw the limits of his power. In 1948, he became one of the first nine black police officers hired by the city. They were allowed uniforms, patrol cars and guns, but they were barred from patrolling white neighborhoods or arresting white people. Their job was to keep the peace in black Memphis, particularly inside the thriving and jiving Club Ebony, Club Paradise, Club Handy, Currie's Club Tropicana and other night spots. The gatekeepers of the white supremacist code wanted to confine, contain and keep the police officers where all black Southerners were expected to stay: in their place, isolated and invisible.But Withers had a weapon more powerful than a gun. Off duty, Withers carried cameras everywhere he went. Denied access to the people and places where white photographers flourished, Withers documented instead the lives of the other invisible people around him — starting in those black night clubs.From the late 1940s until his death this year, Withers shot more than a million frames. The richest troves of photos focused on three main areas: black middle-class life in Memphis and the South before, during and after the civil rights struggle; the brutal hand of white supremacy and the undaunted black response at pivotal moments in this era; and black baseball stars as they moved from the Negro Leagues to the Major Leagues.Born in Memphis in 1922, a time when former slaves and their masters were still part of the landscape, Withers didn't get serious about photography until he served in the Pacific during World War II. On Saipan, he set up a studio in the jungle that drew white soldiers willing to trade beer for a photo they could send home.After the war, Withers returned to Memphis and took the police job. He didn't stay long on the force, however, leaving after three years to devote himself to taking nightclub photos he then sold to performers and proprietors. In 1952, The Chicago Defender, a black newspaper, opened The Tri-State Defender in Memphis. The timing could not have been better for Withers. With the emerging civil rights story, he received a steady flow of assignments from the newspaper and from Ebony and Jet magazines — and ventured deeper into the Southern heart of darkness.Withers seemed to be everywhere during those years. It was Withers who captured the dramatic moment in 1955 when Mose Wright, the wizened uncle of Emmett Till, leaned forward in the witness's chair in a Mississippi courtroom and bravely aimed an accusing finger at Till's white killers. It was Withers who, in the dark of morning the next year, boarded the first Montgomery bus to operate after the landmark boycott led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. ended in victory. Withers covered the Central High confrontation in Little Rock in 1957 and the aftermath of the unfathomable lynching of Mack Charles Parker in Poplarville, Miss., in 1959. Nearly a decade later, in 1968, Withers documented the Memphis sanitation workers' strike, filling a frame with the workers as they stood shoulder to shoulder, holding signs that read, "I Am a Man." Later that year, King's life — and the arc of the civil rights movement — ended tragically in Memphis. Withers did not take the famous photo of King dead on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel; it was shot by a South African photographer. But Withers rescued it from overexposure and processed it in his darkroom.When he wasn't rolling across the South to capture the civil rights struggle, Withers was in Memphis, nearly alone in documenting the swinging, sophisticated, sometimes sultry music scene inside Memphis's black clubs. Through Withers's viewfinder we see B. B. King playing in Bermuda shorts around 1950; and a slender Aretha Franklin, wearing short shorts and holding hands with Sam Cooke, in front of the Lorraine Motel. Withers photographed Ike and Tina Turner performing at Club Paradise in 1962; 10 years later, Isaac Hayes is there, stripped to a bikini bottom. No black entertainer, it seems, came to Memphis and escaped Withers's eye.So powerful is the collection that the photo dealer Tony Decaneas, owner of Panopticon Gallery in Boston, was ashamed in 1991 when he first laid astonished eyes on the collection. He would see in subsequent visits to Memphis how popular the gregarious Withers had become across racial lines; he marveled that a building on Beale Street bore Withers's name; he would become Withers's fan, friend and purveyor. But he can still recall his reaction when he first saw Withers's phenomenal work: "How come I've never heard of this guy?"That, of course, was what the gatekeepers of the segregationist South had wanted. What they did not see was that every minute Withers spent confined, contained and kept where they wanted him only added depth, significance and value to a portfolio that no history of the nation can now ignore.A guide to cultural and recreationalgoings-on around thestate. Items may be submitted bymail to On the Towns, SundayNew Jersey Section, The NewYork Times, 620 Eighth Avenue,New York, N.Y. 10018-1405; or bye-mail to njtowns@nytimes.com.With New Year's Day falling on Tuesday, please call ahead to verify the schedule.COMEDYHASBROUCK HEIGHTS Bananas Comedy Club Tom Cotter, stand-up. Monday at 8 p.m. and 11 p.m. $25 and $35. Leslie Miles, stand-up. Friday through Jan. 5. $12 and $15. Ralphie May, stand-up. Jan. 12 and Jan. 13. $25. Bananas Comedy Club, 283 Route 17 South. (201) 727-1090; www.bananascomedyclub.com.MUSIC AND DANCEBLOOMFIELD Pianos Bar and Grill Dueling Guitars, featuring two guitarists side by side. Jan. 6 at 6 p.m. Free. Pianos Bar and Grill, 36 Broad Street. (973) 743-7208; www.pianosbarandgrill.com.FAIR LAWN Fair Lawn Community Center Vance Gilbert, singer-songwriter, and the Moonlighters. Jan. 5 at 8 p.m. $22 and $25. Fair Lawn Community Center, 10-10 20th Street. (201) 384-1325.GLEN RIDGE Glen Ridge Congregational Church "Golden Age of French Keyboard Music," performance by Dr. Sandor Szabo, playing the harpsichord, piano and organ, featuring music by Couperin, Fauré, Franck, Saint-Saëns, Debussy and Messiaen. Jan. 13 at 3 p.m. $8 to $18. Glen Ridge Congregational Church, 195 Ridgewood Avenue. (973) 743-5596.MORRISTOWN Minstrel Coffeehouse, Morristown Unitarian Fellowship Scott Ainslie and Roia Rafieyan, folk. Friday at 8 p.m. $7. Minstrel Coffeehouse, Morristown Unitarian Fellowship, 21 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 335-9489.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts Women of Windham Hill, performing New Age, Celtic and folk music. Jan. 11 at 8 p.m. $32 to $47. The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center Retumba, an ensemble of women dedicated to the folkloric culture of Latin-European and Afro-Caribbean cultures. Jan. 5 at 2 p.m. $20 and $22. "Coming to America," winter festival with performance by New Jersey Symphony Orchestra. Jan. 5 at 8 p.m. $22 to $80. "Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration," featuring Sounds of Blackness, a musical group, and the guest speaker Kweisi Mfume, former congressman and N.A.A.C.P. president. Jan. 10 at 7 p.m. $15 to $37. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org.NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater Jacqui Naylor, jazz. Monday at 8 p.m. $99. Rufus Wainwright, with guest Lucy Wainwright Roche, singer-songwriters. Jan. 12 at 8 p.m. $35 to $60. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; www.statetheatrenj.org.RED BANK Count Basie Theater Dark Star Orchestra, folk. Dec. 30 at 8 p.m. $20 to $42.50. Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes, rock. Monday at 9 p.m. $30 to $100. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org.RIDGEWOOD Unitarian Society of Ridgewood Rehearsal performance by the Ridgewood Choral of classical, modern and folk music. Friday at 9 a.m. Free. Unitarian Society of Ridgewood, 113 Cottage Place. (201) 444-6225.SUMMIT Unitarian Church in Summit Afternoon music performance by Bill Charlap, jazz pianist, and Sandy Stewart, vocalist. Jan. 13 at 4 p.m. $15 and $20. Unitarian Church in Summit, 4 Waldron Avenue. (908) 273-3245.TEANECK Mexicali Blues Cafe Mike Doughty, rock. Monday at 10 p.m. $35. Daylow and the Defending Champions, funk. Friday at 9 p.m. $10. Mexicali Blues Cafe, 1409 Queen Anne Road. (201) 833-0011; www.mexicalibluescafe.com.TOTOWA 46 Lounge Ed Alstrom's Organ Quartet, jazz. Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. Free. Mark Sherman 4tet, jazz. Jan. 9, 7:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. Free. 46 Lounge, 300 Route 46 East. (973) 890-9699; www.46lounge.com.FILMPRINCETON Princeton Public Library Princeton Environmental Film Festival. Screening and discussion of three Chris Bedford films: "What Will We Eat?" and "The Organic Opportunity" Wednesday at 1 p.m. and "The Next Industrial Revolution" at 7 p.m. Free. Screening and discussion of "Designing a Great Neighborhood: Behind the Scenes at Holiday," by David Wann. Thursday at 1 p.m. Free. Princeton Public Library, 65 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-9529; www.princetonlibrary.org.RED BANK Count Basie Theater Screening of "Camp Woz: The Admirable Lunacy of Philanthropy," documentary. Jan. 12 at 7 p.m. Free. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org.RIDGEWOOD Unitarian Society of Ridgewood "Occupation 101: Voices of the Silenced Majority," documentary on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Jan. 6 at 6 p.m. $5. Unitarian Society of Ridgewood, 113 Cottage Place. (201) 444-6225.FOR CHILDRENATLANTIC HIGHLANDS First Avenue Playhouse "Beauty and the Beast," presented by the Paper Moon Puppet Theater. Jan. 5 through March 22. $9. First Avenue Playhouse, 123 First Avenue. (732) 291-7552; www.firstavenueplayhouse.com.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts "The Russian-American Kids Circus," with acrobatics, cycling, juggling, balancing and clowns. Jan. 5 at 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. $27 and $30. "The Velveteen Rabbit," musical performed by the Enchantment Theater Company. Jan. 13 at 1:30 p.m. and 4 p.m. $12. The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.SEASONALCAMDEN Adventure Aquarium "Fishmas Celebration." Santa will dive into a 760,000-gallon Ocean Realm exhibit and swim with blue fin tuna, cow-nose rays, sea turtles and more. Through Tuesday. $14.95 and $17.95. Adventure Aquarium, 1 Riverside Drive. (866) 451-2782; www.adventureaquarium.com.CAMDEN Camden Children's Garden "Holiday Festival of Lights," a four-acre garden illuminated with more than 100,000 lights. Through Monday. $3.50. Camden Children's Garden, 3 Riverside Drive. (856) 365-8733.CAPE MAY Cape May Stage "Every Christmas Story Ever Told," comedy by Michael Carleton, John Alvarez and Jim Fitzgerald. Through Dec. 30. $10 to $28. Cape May Stage, Bank and Lafayette Streets. (609) 884-1341; www.capemaystage.com.CAPE MAY Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts "An Old-Fashioned Christmas: Holiday Traditions Through the Years," exhibit. Through Tuesday. $1 and $2. Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts, 1048 Washington Street. (609) 884-5404; www.capemaymac.org.CHERRY HILL Garden State Discovery Museum "New Year's at Noon!" A child-friendly New Year's celebration. Monday. Free with museum admission. Garden State Discovery Museum, 2040 Springdale Road. (856) 424-1233.MADISON Museum of Early Trades and Crafts Boxing Day celebration. Learn about this holiday and decorate a box to hold New Year's resolutions. Jan. 9 at 3:30 p.m. $13 and $15. "Family Fun Day." Learn about the art of stenciling and creating rubbings and make some of your own. Jan. 12, 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. $3 and $5. Museum of Early Trades and Crafts, 9 Main Street. (973) 377-2982; www.rosenet.org/metc.MADISON F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater "A Christmas Carol," adapted by the British playwright Neil Bartlett. Through Monday. $28 to $52. F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. (973) 408-5600; www.njshakespeare.org.MILLBURN Paper Mill Playhouse "Nutcracker" by the New Jersey Ballet. Through Dec. 30. $19 to $54. Paper Mill Playhouse, 3 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; www.papermill.org.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts  "First Night Morris County," family-friendly New Year's Eve celebration featuring dance, music, theater, visual arts, comedy and magic. Monday at 7 p.m. $15 and $18. The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.NEWARK The Newark Museum "Greg Wall Klezmerfest: Wall-to-Wall Klezmer," featuring Jewish music and dancing. Dec. 30 at 2 p.m. $3 and $7. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6493; www.newarkmuseum.org.RED BANK Two River Theater Dickens's "Ghost's Bargain," adapted by Laura Eason and directed by Melissa Kievman. Through Dec. 30. $32 to $56. Two River Theater, 21 Bridge Avenue. (732) 345-1400; www.trtc.org.SMITHVILLE Historic Smithville and Village Greene "Story Time With Mrs. Claus." Reading of holiday classics. Through Monday. Free. "Magical Talking Tree," a talking holiday tree. Through Monday. Free. Historic Smithville and Village Greene, Route 9 and East Moss Mill Road. (609) 748-6160; www.smithvillenj.com.SMITHVILLE The Brownstone Puppet Theater and Museum "An Old-Fashioned Christmas," puppet show. Through Monday. $5 and $10. Brownstone Puppet Theater and Museum, Route 9 and Moss Mill Road. (609) 652-5750; www.brownstonepuppettheatre.com.TRENTON Patriots Theater at the War Memorial Greater Trenton Symphony performs its annual New Year's Eve concert. Monday at 8 p.m. $25 to $65. Patriots Theater at the War Memorial, Memorial Drive. (609) 984-8400; www.thewarmemorial.com.WEST ORANGE Turtle Back Zoo "Holiday Light Spectacular," 50,000 bulbs forming more than 40 animals light the way through Turtle Back Zoo. Through Monday. $3 and $5. Turtle Back Zoo, 560 Northfield Avenue. (973) 731-5800.SPOKEN WORDPRINCETON Princeton Public Library Edward Albee will discuss the world premiere of his new play, "Me, Myself and I." Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Princeton Public Library, 65 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-9529; www.princetonlibrary.org.SPRINGFIELD Donald B. Palmer Museum A discussion of the history "The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of the Oxford English Dictionary," by Simon Winchester. Thursday at 7 p.m. Free. Donald B. Palmer Museum, 66 Mountain Avenue. (973) 376-4930.THEATERNEW BRUNSWICK State Theater "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat," presented by Middlesex County's Plays in the Park. Dec. 30. $6. "Salute to Vienna," musical featuring international singers and dancers in traditional costumes. Monday at 6 p.m. $45 to $110. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; www.statetheatrenj.org.PATERSON Passaic County Community College Theater "My Home/My Street: Living or Dying in New Jersey," a multicultural theatrical production by New Jersey artists using stories, movement and songs. Jan. 11 at 8 p.m. $10 and $15. Passaic County Community College Theater, 1 College Boulevard. (973) 684-6555.UNION BEACH  Soar Productions Theater "Wait Until Dark," drama by Frederick Knott. Jan. 11 through Jan. 26. $15 and $18. Soar Productions Theater, 1110 Union Avenue and Morningside Avenue. (732) 471-8268; www.soarproductions.org.WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College "Sideways Stories From Wayside School," performance by the Yardley Players. Jan. 11 through Jan. 13. $8 and $10. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org.MUSEUMS AND GALLERIESCLINTON Hunterdon Museum of Art "Clay and Paper," works by Shellie Jacobson. Through Jan. 6. "Cuba! Artists Experience Their Country," an exhibition portraying social, cultural and political aspects of Cuban life. Jan. 13 through March 30. Reception: Jan. 13 from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415.ENGLEWOOD Englewood Public Library "Faces of Cuba," photographs by Nancy Katz. Through Monday. Mondays through Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Englewood Public Library, 31 Engle Street. (201) 568-2215; www.englewoodlibrary.org. GLEN GARDNER Gallery 31 North "Five for Fall," paintings and ceramic sculpture by Jim Jansma. Through Monday.  Gallery 31 North, Route 31 and Hunt Place. www.gallery31north.com. (908) 537-7044.HACKENSACK Edward Williams Building Auditorium, Fairleigh Dickinson University "My Own Feminism," exhibition including the works of the artists of the organization Salute to Women in the Arts. Jan. 7 through Feb. 1. Free. Edward Williams Building Auditorium, Fairleigh Dickinson University, 150 Kotte Place. (201) 692-7028.HIGHLAND PARK Highland Park Public Library "African Photographs: A Vision of Hope," exhibit by Rodolfo Juliani. Through Monday. Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Highland Park Public Library, 31 North Fifth Avenue. (732) 572-2750.MONTCLAIR Montclair Art Museum "Reflecting Culture: The Evolution of American Comic Book Superheroes," historical and contemporary comic books and drawings, with "Comic Book Legends: Joe, Adam and Andy Kubert." Through Jan. 13. $6 to $8; free for members and children 12 and under; free for everyone on Fridays from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Montclair Art Museum, 3 South Mountain Avenue. (973) 746-5555; www.montclairartmuseum.org.MORRIS TOWNSHIP Morris Museum "Silent Spring: Andy Warhol's Endangered Species and Vanishing Animals." Through Jan. 6. "Pilgrimage: Photographs by Steve McCurry." Through Jan. 27. "Through Our Eyes," photographs by local high school students. Through Jan. 27. $5 to $7; free on Thursdays from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. "Stepping Out in Style: Outerwear of the Last 150 Years." Through March 31. $5 to $7; free on Thursdays from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700; www.morrismuseum.org.NEW BRUNSWICK Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum "A Sense of Place: Children's Book Illustrations," by Catherine Stock. Through Jan. 28. "The Magyar Imagination: Selections From the Salgo Trust Donation of Hungarian Art." Through March 30. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, 71 Hamilton Street. (732) 932-7237; www.zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu.NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation "Dynamic Color: Paintings by Joseph Domjan." Through March 1. $5. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. (732) 846-5777.OCEANVILLE Noyes Museum of Art "Water Ways: Interpretations by Nancy Cohen," art. Through Jan. 6. $3 and $4. "Jonathan Shahn: Imaginary Portraits," sculptured heads, human forms and figures. Through Jan. 6. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Noyes Museum of Art, 733 Lily Lake Road. (609) 652-8848; www.noyesmuseum.org.PRINCETON Princeton University Art Museum "Beloved Daughters: Photographs by Fazal Sheikh." Through Jan. 6. "El Maestro Francisco Toledo: Art From Oaxaca, 1959-2006." Through Jan. 6. "Ansel Adams, Moonrise: Print the Legend." Through Jan. 13. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Princeton University Art Museum, Nassau and Witherspoon Streets. (609) 258-3788; www.princetonartmuseum.org.RIDGEWOOD Unitarian Society of Ridgewood "Ghost Towns of the Old West and Scenic Landscapes," photographs by Jeffery Steccato. Jan. 12 through Feb. 3. Reception: Saturday, Jan. 12 from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Unitarian Society of Ridgewood, 113 Cottage Place. (201) 444-6225.TRENTON Gallery 125 "Revolution," media juried show. Through Feb. 2. Gallery 125, 125 South Warren Street. (609) 989-9119.TRENTON  Gilmore Café Exhibition of works by Rhinold Lamar Ponder, abstract and semi-abstract action paintings. Through Jan. 5.  Free. Gilmore Cafe, 118 South Warren Street. (609) 396-1969.THE Broadway stage has seen celebrities come, and it has seen them go, but it may just have to get up off its doubts for Chaka Khan. This R&B and funk star begins performing as the sassy, fearless Sofia in "The Color Purple" on Jan. 9.Ms. Khan's list of theatrical credits is short, but her string of Grammy Awards is long, and she is up for two more for "Funk This," her first studio album in 10 years. Those who remember Ms. Khan as the erstwhile Yvette Marie Stevens, the petite high school student who changed her name when she went to work for the Black Panthers, or as the lead singer of Rufus in the '70s, or as the leather-and-feathers '80s disco queen, will have to adjust their Ray-Bans for the musical's Hoover-era Sofia with her long skirts and history. Until they hear her.Ms. Khan, 54, takes over the role as the veteran gospel star BeBe Winans joins the production as Sofia's husband, Harpo, and newcomer Zonya Love starts as Celie. Between rehearsing her numbers at the Broadway Theater, Ms. Khan spoke to Celia McGee. These are excerpts from their conversation.Q. That's quite a charm bracelet. What's on there?A. This charm, here, represents the three ARCs of Scientology.Q. Religion is important in "The Color Purple." Are you a Scientologist?A. I'm not, never was, never will be. I belong to the religion of the Church of Chaka Khan, and I practice it every day. I live my religion, I consider it a personal thing. But I've taken some courses in Scientology, and they've been very, very helpful through life's ups and downs.Q. With the exception of a few small screen roles and the musical "Mama, I Want to Sing" in London in 1995, which you said you hated, you haven't acted before. How will you become Sofia?A. I don't have to. I am Sofia. We're so much alike. We're both nuts. Her fundamental application to life is the same emotionally. She's one of the forefronters of women's liberation and the first nonslave black woman who wasn't a slave to anybody. I'm like that. I'd rather be dead. They might as well hang me. And like me Sofia comes from a matriarchal family. My mother's side migrated up from Georgia. I had a lot of help from my ancestors with this. I saw such a kinship with the character. Still, I did everything I could to avoid [taking the role].Q. How so?A. I met with "The Color Purple" people at some ungodly hour of the morning. Probably around noon. I was a complete bitch at the interview,  and it only made them want me more. They said, "You're perfect!"Q. Aren't you more of a Shug Avery, the nightclub singer in the story?A. Not at all. Though I did know girls like that, who lost count of who they'd been with. I was raised Catholic, and I was very Catholicized sexually. I had more hangups. I could never love like that.Q. And Steven Spielberg approached you for the Shug role in the movie?A. He chased me down. But I never considered myself an actress. I would make a good cinematographer, though. I have a great eye, and I can tell how good an actor is.Q. Judging from the cover art on some of your albums, your official Web site (chakakhan.com) and the Chaka Khan Foundation's (chakakhanfoundation.org), and some of your old photos, the color purple is significant to you.A. I've done some reading, in anthropology and other places, on what the color can mean. It's a color of royalty, and of mourning. The Aztecs considered it a mixture of blood and the sky. I've just always been attracted to it. Like everyone has a note on the piano that their body resonates to. It's also the freak color, it's associated with hippiedom, the free-spirited kind of thing.Q. Which has always been one of your things. What about the African dance number in the show — does it take you back to your teenage days with the Afro-Arts Theater?A. It gives me sort of flashbacks.Q. And there was the period of drugs and alcohol.A. I led a risky life. It was my youth, that invincibility thing. Then my Pisces side kicked in, and it told me exactly when to stop. Without that, I'd be dead.Q. Sofia almost dies because of racism. What about racism today?A. Racism is still very much alive, but it's become intellectual. It's practiced in a very high-minded way. It's all smoke and mirrors. It's not blatant outright whupping and lynching like in the past. It's more psychological, and spiritual.Q. You wrote an autobiography a few years ago. Would you write another book?A. I may have to. So much of my life has become so much more interesting.Q. What about those Chakalates chocolates you were involved with? Are you still?A. Oh yes. We're looking for a new deal so we can make them with that really dark chocolate that's good for you.Q. Do you have a favorite song in the show?A. I do. But I'm not singing it, Celie sings it. It's "Lily of the Field," with those lines, "So many winters grey and summers blue/She must be dead/What kind of God are you?" I also love the one Shug sings to Celie, "Too Beautiful for Words."O.K., so this wasn't the reconstituted Led Zeppelin causing a commotion at the O2 arena in London. This wasn't the rereconciled Eagles cranking out the comeback album that set Wal-Mart ablaze. This wasn't the Police  revivified; this wasn't Van Halen rejuvenated; this wasn't even Genesis semirecombobulated.But on Thursday night the B. B. King Blues Club & Grill played host to what might have been  —  finally!  —  the last musical reunion of 2007. The concert was sold out, and there was a line of ticketless fans outside on West 42nd Street, hoping to find a way in. And then, around 9:30 p.m., after the opening act had been helped (which is to say, booed) offstage, it was time for the main event: a comeback show from the Yonkers-bred hip-hop trio known as the LOX.Never mind that the LOX never actually broke up. Never mind that the group never quite became a household name, even in hip-hop households. For a certain kind of listener, Thursday night's concert was a very big deal. For two hours nonstop, the three members  —  Jadakiss, Styles P and Sheek Louch  —  shouted their lyrics to a crowd of raucous partisans, who shouted them right back.Surely they didn't plan it this way, but the members of the LOX have built a career in reverse, seeming more like a scrappy (and beloved) local group with every passing year. First came an inspirational pop song: "We'll Always Love Big Poppa," released soon after the murder of the Notorious B.I.G. in 1997. Then came a flashy, big-budget hip-hop CD, "Money, Power and Respect," released in 1998 through Puff Daddy's Bad Boy label. After noisily splitting with Puff, they returned two years later with "We Are the Streets," a rowdy and lovable declaration of loyalty to hip-hop's grass roots. Since then, the members have released a sprinkling of solo albums and a blizzard of mixtapes.For much of that time, they called themselves D-Block, not the LOX. Either way, the group hasn't released a proper album since 2000. Thursday's concert made a new one seem more likely, though there were no promises. Instead there were old favorites (some hits, most not) and new solo tracks and stray verses; by night's end, the three had rumbled through 43 songs, many abridged. And no doubt some greedy fans would have wanted more. (An idle question: Would it have killed them to dust off "Who Did You Expect," from DJ Clue's 2000 "Backstage" compilation?)All three seemed both exuberant and slightly cranky, a combination that suits them well. When Jadakiss plugged Styles P's newest solo CD, "Super Gangster (Extraordinary Gentleman)" (Koch), he said, "Cop the album or you get stabbed." And throughout the show the members pondered the club's zero-tolerance policy on marijuana."Trust me, put the weed out," Styles P commanded, saying he was worried the concert would be shut down. Later, near the end, he reversed himself, and Jadakiss noted that the trio's concert fee was no longer in jeopardy. "We only got a couple songs left," he said. "They gotta pay!"New York rappers  —  like New York nonrappers, perhaps  —  have long been known for their exquisite gruffness, and the LOX take this tradition to giddy (or grim) heights. Their idea of a happy encounter usually involves metal and flesh. Three club tracks were sandwiched into a mini-set "for the ladies"; at a LOX concert that's a minuscule contingent, and no doubt an intrepid one.These rappers have appeared on a surprising number of pop hits over the years, and Thursday's show included verses from Puff Daddy's "It's All About the Benjamins (Remix)" and Akon's "Locked Up (Remix)," but not Jennifer Lopez's "Jenny From the Block" or Mariah Carey's "Honey (Remix)."The focus, though, was on the group's own tracks, which have aged well, precisely because many now seem like vivid relics from the recent past. In "Dope Money" the crowd rapped along with Jadakiss: "Basically speakin', all I know, your face'll be leakin'/I rap full-time and still pump base on the weekend." (Eight years later that already sounds pretty quaint, the way old-fashioned gangster slang often does.)And his expression of fraternal solidarity, from "We Gonna Make It," sounded sweeter than ever: "Matter of fact, go get your chrome/'Cause I'd rather be broke together than rich alone." That's about as pure a declaration of manly love as you'll ever hear, in hip-hop or outside it.As the show finally wound down, Styles P made an announcement. "We go through our trials and tribulations," he said, and then he paused, as if searching for a phrase to explain the group, the rhymes, the fans who still want to shout along. Finally he found one: "We do what we do."U.S. patent 2,817,025 was issued almost exactly 50 years ago to a slight, soft-spoken Austrian immigrant who worked in the industrial labs of the Zenith corporation on the West Side of Chicago. Robert Adler was an accomplished physicist who adored nature, books and classical music. He didn't watch much television, but he was nevertheless a genius at improving its gadgetry. His 1957 patent described something called a "new and improved remote control system." Five drawings laid out an architecture for the kind of innovation that would become increasingly common as the century wore on: a media technology that appeared simple, and that promised to make life better for consumers, and that hid its complexity under the guise of compact physical elegance.We like to romanticize inventors as excitable types brimming with revolutionary ideas, when in fact people like Adler often think of themselves as coming up with useful solutions to specific problems. Trying to command machines electronically from a distance is an old challenge; as far back as the late 1800s, Nikola Tesla was patenting a variant of remote-control technology that he claimed could direct a ship from the shoreline. In the 1950s, Zenith's president, Eugene F. McDonald Jr., was convinced that viewers would soon demand a convenient way to avoid irritating product advertisements, either by changing channels, muting the sound or both. In 1950, Zenith created a television remote control called Lazy Bones, which communicated with the set through a wire. This solved one problem (you didn't have to get up to turn off commercials) but created others (you were tethered to the set and now had a tripping hazard at your feet). So a Zenith engineer named Eugene Polley then developed the industry's first wireless remote — a ray-gun-like device, originally marketed in 1955 as the Flash-Matic — that directed light signals at the set. The Flash-Matic solved the Lazy Bones problem (no cord), but it created yet another: sunlight could make your TV go haywire. So McDonald called his researchers to an emergency meeting. He wanted a practical solution. Quick.In those early days of television, this wasn't easy. Wires were out. Light flashes were out. Radio waves were out, because they travel through walls and could change the neighbors' TV channels. Also, batteries were out. Zenith sales managers worried that viewers would think the remote was broken when a battery died. In a 2004 interview for the Web site Archive of American Television, Adler recalled that in response to hearing about the remote-control problem, he remembered that he had visited a steel plant, years before, and noted the high-pitched sound of metal rods striking a hard object. So he returned to his lab with the idea of using ultrasonic sound waves, beyond the range of the human ear, to send signals to a receiver in the television. It turned out to be a superb solution. In Zenith's first ultrasonic remotes, dubbed Space-Commanders, a button activated a tiny hammer that struck a small aluminum rod and sent an inaudible signal to the set. Unlike today's devices, the buttons were not easy to push; the action felt more like hitting a piano key. The first clickers actually clicked.Adler never fancied himself as the father of the remote control, which over time came to utilize batteries, transistors and, nowadays, infrared signals. That his invention became subsumed into the larger culture business, to the point that the noise of modernity required constant muting, or that a universal remote could control dozens of home appliances, was for him a source of surprise. Instead he thought of himself as someone who played a useful role in the evolution of television, a process that took half a century and incorporated the ingenuity of countless scientists and engineers. Through thousands of incremental solutions to thousands of problems, they pushed the technology forward — perhaps as far as it could go. By the end of his life, Adler said he believed the television had effectively reached its technological end point; with the advent of high-definition flat-screen sets, which he worked on at Zenith for decades, he doubted the human eye would really be able to discern further improvements.He was lucky to have been in the right place at the right time. And with about 200 patents to his name, he had an extraordinary run. His last patent — relating to touch-screen technologies, on which Adler was also a key innovator — was awarded shortly before he died. Near the end of his life, he told his old friend John Pederson, the Zenith patent attorney who signed his application for the remote control 50 years before, that he wished he could be more useful. His mind remained agile. But being stuck ill in bed was no place for an inventor.To the Editor:Re " 'Ode to Joy,' Followed by Chaos and Despair," by Slavoj Zizek (Op-Ed, Dec. 24):I am not among those who think that Beethoven's "Ode to Joy" is an "empty signifier." It is we who have perverted the message of Schiller's poem and Beethoven's music.In my book "Beethoven: The Ninth Symphony," I argue that the so-called "Turkish march" is the first step toward a rapprochement between West and East, the culmination of which is achieved in the finale's second double fugue.A close reading of Schiller's words reveals that the "Turkish march" is a paraphrase of the portion of Psalm 19 that refers to a metaphorical wedding procession. The bride and groom are the Occident and the Orient.What Beethoven suggests, when read and heard in this light, is that joy is truly a universal agent of unity. It is hardly Beethoven's or Schiller's fault if politicians have attempted to delimit the "Ode to Joy" to narrower interpretations. David B. LevyWinston-Salem, N.C., Dec. 25, 2007The writer is a professor of music at Wake Forest University.
