There will be many chances to re-evaluate the music of Leonard Bernstein this year, as American orchestras and ensembles celebrate the 90th anniversary of his birth. And there is increasing consensus that this prodigiously gifted musician may have been underrated as a composer during his lifetime.On Monday night, at the Frederick P. Rose Theater, the Collegiate Chorale and its dynamic music director, Robert Bass, contributed to the Bernstein year by presenting the New York premiere of "A White House Cantata," a concert adaptation of "1600 Pennsylvania Avenue," an ambitious musical that Bernstein wrote with the lyricist Alan Jay Lerner. At its 1976 premiere, the show was a colossal failure, closing after seven performances and demoralizing its creators.Those hoping that the Collegiate Chorale's presentation, directed by the actor Roger Rees, would uncover an overlooked treasure may have been disappointed. The original musical was an ill-conceived venture with a pretentious book offering a historic panorama of the White House occupants, from Washington to Theodore Roosevelt. Woven through this narrative was a pontificating story about slavery."A White House Cantata" is a pared-down, 90-minute version of the musical, and the score has some lively and effective music, including deft evocations of Dixieland, along with  metrically fractured waltzes.But from the opening prelude, with its quizzical rumblings in the orchestra, rich with wandering chromatic harmonies and hints of hymn tunes, the music sounds as if it is straining to be serious. When a humming chorus joins it, atop an ominous pedal tone in the orchestra, the effect is hokey. The prologue segues into "Ten Square Miles by the Potomac River," an intentionally crude march during which Washington and delegates from the 13 states have a feisty contrapuntal debate over where to locate the nation's capital.Though "Take Care of This House," a wistful piece sung by Abigail Adams, may be a touch saccharine, it has won a place in the song-recital repertory. Bernstein certainly had a feeling for dance, as proved by a calypso-driven ensemble during the marriage of Lud and Seena, stand-ins for three generations of black servants in the White House.Still, as a theater composer Bernstein may have been at his best when he had nothing to prove and could use his great skills to get the job done, as in his charming, witty score for "Wonderful Town," which he composed quickly under pressure. In "A White House Cantata" you sense his struggle to lift the genre of the musical to some higher musical plane, and the effort comes through.The baritone Dwayne Croft brought a robust voice and dramatic flair to portrayals of all the presidents. The soprano Emily Pulley, singing the first ladies, stopped the show with her tour-de-force "Duet for One," in which she portrays both the incoming first lady, Lucy Hayes,  on the Inauguration Day for Rutherford B. Hayes, all aflutter with excitement, and the outgoing one,  Julia Grant, full of sniping complaints about her successor. Also admirable were the coloratura soprano Anita Johnson as Seena, the sweet lyric tenor Robert Mack as Lud and the appealing Kalif Omari Jones, just 10, as Little Lud.The fine  musicians from the Orchestra of St. Luke's were not quite on top of this complex and fussy score. Mr. Bass may have pushed his choristers too hard in an attempt to sell the piece. Still, sing it they did, with hardy sound and high spirits.Time and again at Town Hall on Friday night Ornette Coleman tacked toward the blues. The dimensions of his pristine alto saxophone tone — a small, bright thing with a flavor both tart and sweet  —  kept warping slightly, in the manner of an R&B singer. He phrased in short, soulful bursts as well as fluid outpourings, frequently skimming a pentatonic scale. And his band invoked the blues clearly at times, with a smattering of riffs and backbeats, and one vamp evocative of the  "Peter Gunn" theme.On some level this wasn't unusual. The blues have always been a bedrock presence in Mr. Coleman's music, however avant-garde his reputation. His momentous half-century career has even delved meaningfully into funk, via his band Prime Time. But here he was working in a  bebop mode, bracketing his solo flights with tight, concise themes. The blues accent felt like a thoughtful restriction, a way of grounding the abstract thrust of the performance. Whatever the case, it worked: the concert was a bracing triumph.Mr. Coleman largely stocked it with songs from his album "Sound Grammar," which won the Pulitzer Prize for music last year. As on the record and most of his recent concerts, he enlisted a sympathetic quartet with two bassists. His son, Denardo Coleman, played drums with hard insistency, even bombast  (at bright tempos, his ride-cymbal patterns were rivetlike),  but he also kept closely attuned to the flow of improvisation.The bassists were Tony Falanga, who plucked and bowed his instrument with twitchy prowess; and Al MacDowell, an alumnus of Prime Time, who played in a register and style more suggestive of a guitarist. Though playing an electric bass, Mr. MacDowell's tone through the amplifier was crisp and trebly. Both bassists had the range to dialogue with Mr. Coleman, and they occasionally did, without overcrowding him.At  times  Mr. MacDowell and Mr. Falanga  converged on a coordinated bass line. "Song World," a delicate ballad, involved their slow progression up the scale. On the other end of the spectrum was a Prime Time classic, "Dancing in Your Head," which had them repeating a jangly hook like a playground taunt, while Mr. Coleman cartwheeled and caterwauled overhead.A number of tunes  —  including "Following the Sound," which opened the concert, and "Song X," which closed it  —  followed a similar plotline. First there was a mad scramble, and then an inquisitive tangent, followed by a headlong dash to the finish. The solo portion could feature either Mr. Coleman or Mr. Falanga, with Mr. MacDowell providing a running commentary of chords and arpeggios.There were also pieces steeped in gentle emotion, like "Song World," "Sleep Talking" and, of course, the exquisite customary encore, "Lonely Woman." More curiously, there was a group elaboration on the prelude to Bach's Cello Suite No. 1, which briefly had Mr. Coleman blaring his trumpet and sawing on his violin.Somehow, though, that was less puzzling than "Turnaround," a true blues, and one of Mr. Coleman's oldest tunes. The band played it as a slow drag, and even in this setting Mr. Coleman was chirpily evasive. He made the blues seem like both a native language and an alien custom, something to approach with wary curiosity.CLASSICALATLANTA SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA While at the helm of the Brooklyn Philharmonic and since becoming music director of the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra in 2001, the energetic conductor Robert Spano, above, has championed contemporary composers, including Osvaldo Golijov, Jennifer Higdon, Michael Gandolfi and Christopher Theofanidis, promoting their  works in concerts and recordings.On Saturday Mr. Spano will lead the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra, as well as the ensemble's  chorus  (directed by Norman Mackenzie, Robert Shaw's successor), in the New York premiere of Mr. Theofanidis's "Here and Now."The work was commissioned by the orchestra, which has already recorded and performed his melodic "Rainbow Body" and will give the premiere of his new symphonic piece  in the 2009-10 season as part of its Atlanta School of Composers program. The initiative promotes living composers linked not by birthright (Mr. Golijov is Argentine, for example) but by a tonal, tuneful and mainstream audience-friendly musical aesthetic."Here and Now" features 13 short movements based on English translations (by Coleman Barks) of mystical texts by Rumi, the 13th-century Persian poet whose verses Mr. Theofanidis first encountered during a performance of Philip Glass's "Monsters of Grace." The soloists on Saturday are the baritone Nathan Gunn, the tenor Richard Clement and the soprano Hila Plitmann.The rest of  the program was also inspired by mythological elements. The tone poem "Tapiola," Sibelius's last major work, takes its title from Tapio, the forest god of Finnish folklore. The Atlanta orchestra and chorus will also perform Ravel's shimmering score for "Daphnis et Chloé,"  which the composer called "a choreographic symphony in three parts." Written for Sergei Diaghilev and the Ballets Russes, it was inspired by an ancient Greek tale of two children, raised by shepherds, who fall in love. (At 8 p.m.,  Carnegie Hall, 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $26 to $88.) VIVIEN SCHWEITZER Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.Opera'LA BOHÈME' (Saturday and Wednesday) Franco Zeffirelli's busy 1981 production returns, offering audiences ample opportunity to watch both the principals and the army of choristers and extras engaging in the pointless gesturing and aimless loping about that passes as acting in an opera house. The cast includes Angela Gheorghiu as a supple Mimi;  Ramón Vargas as a warm-toned, if restrained, Rodolfo; and Ainhoa Arteta as a colorful, flamboyant Musetta. Nicola Luisotti conducts. Saturday at 1:30 p.m., Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., the Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out.(Allan Kozinn)★ 'CANDIDE' (Tuesday through Thursday) Leonard Bernstein's richest musical theater work has long had an identity crisis:  is it a musical or an opera? In 1982 the director Harold Prince presented an operatic-size production for the New York City Opera, with the collaboration of Bernstein, who beefed up the orchestrations. It was last seen in 2005, pumped up with sight gags, drops, props and antics; too much activity for my taste.  Still, the cast was winning. The production returns on Tuesday for a 14-performance run with Daniel Reichard, in his company debut, portraying Candide. George Manahan conducts. Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130.(Anthony Tommasini)'ERNANI'  (Saturday and Thursday) This season's excellent quartet of principals returns for the Met's fine revival of Verdi's tough-talking early opera. Sondra Radvanovsky, Marcello Giordani, Thomas Hampson and Ferruccio Furlanetto are the singers. Saturday at 8 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $42 to $220 tickets remaining on Saturday, $80 to $175 on Thursday. (Bernard Holland)★ 'FALSTAFF' (Saturday) Leon Major's appealing staging of "Falstaff," a co-production by New York City Opera and Glimmerglass Opera, is enlivened by the comic flair of the bass-baritone Jan Opalach in the title role and plenty of apt comic timing from the rest of the strong cast, which includes Pamela Armstrong as Alice Ford, and Anna Skibinsky as Nannetta. George Manahan conducts. At 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Vivien Schweitzer)★ 'THE GAMBLER' (Friday and Tuesday) An early success in Valery Gergiev's campaign to bring great Russian operas to New York was the Metropolitan Opera premiere production in 2001 of "The Gambler," Prokofiev's shattering second opera, based on the novella by Dostoyevsky. The story follows the downfall of Alexei, a young man with a university pedigree and a gambling addiction. The powerhouse tenor Vladimir Galouzine sings the daunting title role. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $295 on Friday, $15 to $175 on Tuesday.(Tommasini)'MADAMA BUTTERFLY' (Friday and Sunday) Mark Lamos's strikingly elegant, spare production concludes its spring run at New York City Opera this weekend. Yunah Lee sings Cio-Cio-San, Rebecca Ringle is Suzuki,  and Christopher Jackson is Pinkerton.  Friday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 1:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Schweitzer)'TOSCA' (Saturday) Mark Lamos's effective staging of "Tosca" for City Opera, enhanced by Robert Wierzel's artful lighting, updates the action to Fascist Rome, creating a menacing backdrop for the nastiness of the plot. As the jealous diva, Anna Shafajinskaia sings with a powerful, dark-hued voice, although the chemistry between her and Cavaradossi, sung here by Raúl Melo, is unconvincing. Todd Thomas vividly illustrates the chilling depravity of Baron Scarpia.  At 1:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Schweitzer)Classical MusicACADEMY OF ST. MARTIN IN THE FIELDS (Tuesday) The venerable Neville Marriner and the equally venerable chamber orchestra he founded are together again for an evening divided between Haydn and Mozart. The scheduled pianist Murray Perahia has canceled, but listeners shouldn't be disappointed by his replacement, Marc-André Hamelin. The two piano concertos here are Mozart's early and important No. 9 in E flat and Haydn's delicious little Concerto in D. Mozart's "Paris" and Haydn's "London" Symphonies complete this geographical survey. At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $30 to $ 70.  (Holland)★ JULIANE BANSE (Thursday) This elegant German-born soprano sings in a much anticipated concert at the 92nd Street Y with the Rossetti String Quartet and the pianist Brian Zeger, performing a program of Bach, Aribert Reimann and Mendelssohn. Of special interest will be the first New York performance of Bach's "Alles mit Gott," a solo aria composed in 1713 but subsequently lost. It was rediscovered in 2005 in a library in Germany. At 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $40. (Tommasini)★ BEAUX-ARTS TRIO (Sunday) The members of this venerable trio, a chamber music institution since the pianist Menahem Pressler helped found  it in 1955, have decided it's time to go their separate ways. For the ensemble's final appearance in New York, Mr. Pressler, 84, and his younger colleagues, the violinist Daniel Hope and the cellist Antonio Meneses, will perform Schubert's Trios Nos.  1 and 2 (Op. 99 and 100) and Kurtag's Trio, which was written for the Beaux-Arts. At 8 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $50. (Schweitzer)BELCEA QUARTET (Friday) The excellent young Belcea players return with Haydn's D major String Quartet from Op. 20, the third of Bartok's six quartets and Schubert's famous "Death and the Maiden." Haydn more or less invented the medium, and this is a fine early specimen. The Bartok marks the composer's escape from effusively Romantic quartet writing into a tougher 20th-century style. The Schubert should work its usual magic. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $36 to $44.(Holland)EMERSON STRING QUARTET (Sunday) This excellent ensemble gives its final all-Brahms concert this season, including the composer's Quartet No. 3. The Emerson players will be joined by David Shifrin for the Clarinet Quintet and the violist Paul Neubauer and the cellist Colin Carr for the Sextet No. 1. At 5 p.m., Rose Theater, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $35 to $65. (Schweitzer)★ MATA FESTIVAL (Friday) This adventurous new-music festival closes with performances of new and recent works by Richard Carrick, Andrew Byrne, Sean Griffin, Missy Mazzoli, Oscar Bettison and David T. Little, performed by two New York ensembles, Newspeak and Either/Or. At 8 p.m., Brooklyn Lyceum, 227 Fourth Avenue, at President Street, Park Slope, (212) 563-5124, matafestival.org; $15; $10 for students and 65+. (Kozinn)BOBBY McFERRIN, YO-YO MA, ORCHESTRA OF ST. LUKE'S (Sunday and Thursday) As part of his Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall, the versatile singer and conductor Bobby McFerrin leads the Orchestra of St. Luke's in two programs. The centerpiece on Sunday is Fauré's exquisite Requiem, with the soprano Dominique Labelle and the baritone Nathan Gunn as the soloists. Prokofiev's "Classical" Symphony, Ravel's "Tombeau de Couperin" and vocal improvisations by Mr. McFerrin fill out the program. On Thursday Mr. McFerrin revives his occasional collaboration with the cellist Yo-Yo Ma in an arrangement of Vivaldi's G minor Concerto for Two Cellos (RV 531). The program also includes works by Fauré and Bach, as well as more of Mr. McFerrin's entertaining improvisations. Sunday at 2 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $24 to $79 on Sunday; $37 to $126 on Thursday. (Kozinn)MUSICA SACRA (Tuesday) Led by Kent Tritle, this longtime New York chorus takes on Bach's mighty B minor Mass. This is an evening's worth of music, and, when done well, a soul-filling one as well. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $20 to $110. (Holland)NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Friday, Saturday, Wednesday and Thursday) Colin Davis always has the Philharmonic playing its best when he comes to town, and the public knows it. This weekend the music is mostly Beethoven: the "Leonore" Overture No. 2 and the Fourth Piano Concerto with Richard Goode. As a loyal British conductor, Mr. Davis can always be expected to do some genteel flag-waving, in this case Vaughan Williams's Symphony No. 4. On Wednesday and Thursday Lang Lang is the soloist in Tan Dun's new Piano Concerto. Leonard Slatkin conducts in a program that also includes Stravinsky's complete "Firebird." Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center,  (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $34 to $104 (limited availability on Friday, sold out on Saturday). (Holland)★ PETER SERKIN (Saturday) This probing pianist has a typically adventurous recital program. He begins with a Renaissance vocal work by Josquin as reset for piano by Charles Wuorinen. After a piece by Messiaen, he will play the premiere of a Scherzo by Mr. Wuorinen. There are also two sets of variations by Brahms, including the exhilarating and technically formidable "Handel Variations." At 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $40. (Tommasini)★ STRAVINSKY FESTIVAL (Wednesday) This five-part festival presented by Miller Theater kicks off with a wide-ranging program at the Morgan Library & Museum. The program includes the "Dumbarton Oaks" Concerto (1937-38), the Concertino for Twelve Instruments (1952), the "Fanfare for a New Theatre" (1964) and another dozen chamber scores. The performers are the energetic young players of the International Contemporary Ensemble, with Jayce Ogren conducting. At 7:30 p.m.,  225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com; $45. (Kozinn)If there is such a thing as a typical French composer, it might be Ernest Chausson, whose "Poem of Love and of the Sea" was sung by Felicity Lott at Tuesday's concert of the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra at Carnegie Hall. In Chausson's songs there is the ambiguity of souls in need of privacy and solitude and yet filled with the need to be felt by others. Passion subdued by reticence was as necessary to Couperin in the 18th century as to Poulenc in the 20th.This "Poème de l'Amour et de la Mer" — two song sequences separated by an orchestral interlude — occupied Chausson for more than 10 years. Finished in 1893, the piece is French in another way, representing a national culture's hideous fascination with Wagner, a near-obsession that ended in the only completely successful Wagneresque opera ever written, Debussy's "Pelléas et Mélisande.""The Flower of the Waters" at the start of Chausson's piece comes off as a Wagnerian operatic soliloquy. "The Death of Love" concludes with a segment called "The Time of Lilacs," a song within a song and one of the composer's most touching moments. It is interesting how Chausson's endings tend to swell rapturously but then die quietly away, as if the music were embarrassed at having worn its heart so openly.At 60 Ms. Lott remains a lovely presence. She sells this music using the same ambiguities of strong feeling and restraint that were used to create it. Her soprano has lost power with the years, but what remains is well managed.Tania León's new piece "Ácana" bears the name of a tree abundant in her native Cuba. It is a complex, almost mazelike accumulation of layers: busy, dangerously eccentric in its rhythmic life, full of birdcalls and other evidence of wildlife, and melting together the many ethnicities that make up Caribbean culture. The music does not seem to move from Point A to Point B but rather stands in one place, as in the middle of a forest, gradually absorbing the sounds around it.Orpheus played a lineup of difficult music with more mutuality of mood and ensemble than I can ever remember. Copland's "Three Latin American Sketches," acidic in tone and with sharp, uneven edges, was a model of confidence. Chausson's orchestra parts were lovely. A littler looser but appropriately energetic was Bizet's Symphony in C at the end. Orpheus advertises itself as having no conductor, but given the athletic body language emanating from different parts of the orchestra, it really has four or five.Even for the most gifted young pianist, it takes a lot to be noticed. Xiayin Wang, a doctoral student at the Manhattan School of Music, is clearly doing something right. In her native China, where she trained at the Shanghai Conservatory, Ms. Wang took first place in numerous competitions. Since her arrival here in 1997, she has added further prizes to her tally, played Carnegie Hall several times and released a well-regarded recital CD.Ms. Wang's recital at Zankel Hall on Monday night offered plenty of evidence for her success. Bach's Violin Chaconne in D minor, as arranged for piano by Busoni, served as her calling card. It neatly illustrated two of her principal strengths: an estimable grasp of pianistic color and an ability to maintain and illuminate a strand of melody within the thickest of textures.Prokofiev's terse "Sarcasms" had an appropriately steely glint, and three sonatas by Scarlatti were lithe and buoyant. Now and then a finger fell astray, but the personality of Ms. Wang's playing compensated.She offered a well-wrought account of Scriabin's Fantasy in B minor, the work of a young, earnest Chopin acolyte. She found considerably more poetry in Chopin's Polonaise-Fantaisie in A flat, underscoring its affecting melancholy through the dreamy reverie of her opening bars and her beautifully flexible phrasing throughout."My Wounded Head (dreams of moths)," newly created for Ms. Wang by Marc Chan, a gifted young pianist and composer from Singapore, is part of a series based on a set of pitches from Bach's St. Matthew Passion.  In the first section of the work icy notes clang across the keyboard at fluctuating speeds; in the second they swarm in masses of nervous tremolos. The work's most impressive feature is its daunting physicality; Ms. Wang met its challenges with commitment and stamina.She concluded her program with a voluptuous, intensely colored rendition of "La Valse," by Ravel. Her go-for-broke bravado near the end did justice to this fanciful showpiece's macabre undercurrents. Her encore, Earl Wild's virtuoso transcription of "The Man I Love," by Gershwin, seemed urbane by comparison.Wayne Frost, a hip-hop pioneer known as Frosty Freeze who helped inspire a worldwide break-dancing craze in the early 1980s as a member of the influential group Rock Steady Crew, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 44.Jorge Pabon, who uses the name Pop Master Fabel and is the vice president of the group, confirmed Mr. Frost's death, at Mount Sinai Medical Center, saying it followed a long illness, which he did not identify.Mr. Frost was known for his acrobatic and daredevil moves. One that he created involved a flip in the air that ended with Mr. Frost flat on his back. He called it the Suicide.Mr. Frost began attracting wide attention in 1981, when his picture appeared on the cover of The Village Voice with an article by Sally Banes titled "Physical Graffiti: Breaking Is Hard to Do."He was then featured in early hip-hop music videos, including Malcolm McLaren's "Buffalo Gals," and performed in films about hip-hop culture, including the groundbreaking 1983 documentary "Style Wars" and the 1983 feature film "Wild Style." But it was his appearance in the 1983 hit movie "Flashdance," with Jennifer Beals, that brought him recognition around the world and helped introduce break dancing to mainstream popular culture.At the time, break dancing, or b-boying, a daring and complex dance form that grew out of the streets of the Bronx and Harlem in the 1970s, was one element of the emerging hip-hop culture, which included graffiti art, rapping and D.J.s scratching and mixing vinyl records on turntables.Break dancing had its own terminology and was composed of two basic elements: top rock, involving upper-body movement, and floor rock, involving footwork. A b-boy dance phrase finishes with a freeze, hence the name that Mr. Frost adopted."He was not only an amazing dancer but a daredevil," Mr. Pabon said in an interview Thursday. "The moves he did were really super high-risk. He had these signature moves and swagger, this really classy b-boy swagger, that made him extremely unique."In 1983 The New York Times wrote of him: "Frosty (Wayne Frost, when not dancing) is well-known in the world of break dancing, the current preoccupation in New York's discothèques and clubs. He is lean-faced and limber, with a wisp of a beard. Had he been born two generations earlier, he might have been the king of boogie-woogie, or a jitterbug virtuoso."The Rock Steady Crew was founded in 1977 in the Bronx and gained international attention throughout the '80s as its members, including Mr. Frost, Mr. Pabon, Crazy Legs, Ken Swift and others, toured and performed. The Crew was honored at the VH1 Hip-Hop Honors in 2004 and celebrated its 30th anniversary in July with a reunion and performance.Mr. Frost also appeared in two more documentaries about hip-hop culture, "The Freshest Kids" (2002) and "5 Sides of a Coin" (2003).He is survived by a brother and two sisters."Frosty was one of the most charismatic b-boys that was ever around," said Benson Lee, who directed a 2007 documentary about break dancing, "Planet B-Boy," in which Mr. Frost appeared. "He embodied the purist spirit of b-boying. He had so much fun with it."POPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.ABSOLUTE BODY CONTROL, WOLF EYES (Friday) Absolute Body Control, from Belgium, follows closely in the footsteps of the 1970s New York band Suicide, with a claustrophobic minimalism that turns electronic dance-rock into psychic trauma. The duo makes its American debut at the Music Hall of Williamsburg with Wolf Eyes, the self-described "the Lynyrd Skynyrd of noise." At 10 p.m., 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, musichallofwilliamsburg.com, (718) 486-5400; $15. Wolf Eyes also plays with Prurient on Saturday at 8 p.m. at Cake Shop, 152 Ludlow Street, between Stanton and Rivington Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0036, cake-shop.com. (Ben Sisario)  ★ JASON COLLETT (Wednesday and Thursday) A sometime member of the Toronto indie-prog collective Broken Social Scene, Jason Collett on his own is a winsome folkie with a Dylanesque whine. His acoustic touch on "Here's to Being Here" (Arts & Crafts) is accomplished, and the electronic bleeps and zips keep it all from being too nostalgic. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $12. (Sisario)COOL KIDS (Sunday) The late '80s are everything to this Chicago rap duo: the influence comes through not only in the beats and Rakim-style rhymes but also in visuals that worship bulky old cellphones. With Mickey Factz. At 8 p.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $17. (Sisario)RAY DAVIES (Tuesday) Rock's greatest and wriest storyteller stumbles a bit on his latest, "Working Man's Café" (New West), with unilluminating reflections on labor and globalization. But you'll forget all about that once he plays the still dumbfoundingly brilliant "Waterloo Sunset" or "Shangri-La" or "Victoria" or "Celluloid Heroes" or "Oklahoma U.S.A."  At 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 307-7171, beacontheatrenyc.com; $59 to $99. (Sisario)  * KIMYA DAWSON (Friday and Sunday) A veteran of the scrappy antifolk circuit, with stream-of-consciousness songs that balance the caustic and the childlike, Kimya Dawson is the last person you'd expect to be tangled up in Hollywood fame. But her songs for "Juno" thrust her enough into the limelight that she has fretted about losing her intimate connection to her fans. To compensate, she sometimes orchestrates full-audience group hugs. Friday at 7 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $15. Sunday at 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $18. (Sisario)  ★ DIRTY PROJECTORS (Wednesday) Led by the mad genius Dave Longstreth, Dirty Projectors is perhaps New York's cleverest young band, bringing a mischievous conceptual imagination to music that juggles punk, kinetic Afropop and eerily precise harmonies. With No Kids. At 9 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, musichallofwilliamsburg.com, (718) 486-5400; $15. (Sisario)THE DUKE SPIRIT, THE PIERCES (Tuesday) Long simmering in Britain as a Next Big Thing, the Duke Spirit plays competently bluesy art-rock, and its members style themselves as "conduits of debauchery." Catherine and Allison Pierce have model looks, slithery new-wave tunes and an acerbic take on life behind the velvet ropes: "Sexy boy, girl-on-girl, ménage à trois — boring." At 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Sisario)KATHLEEN EDWARDS, DAN WILSON (Thursday) Kathleen Edwards sings about hard drinkers, rock stars, lovers and killers in songs that look toward the craggy directness of Lucinda Williams and Neil Young. Dan Wilson, since his days in the '90s as the leader of the alt-rock ballad band Semisonic ("Closing Time"), has been cultivating a songwriting career that includes recent hits by the Dixie Chicks. At 9 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $20. (Sisario)EXPLOSIONS IN THE SKY (Tuesday) With a trick or two borrowed from Pink Floyd, the epic instrumentals by this band from Austin, Tex., begin in peace, with single notes twinkling amid darkness, and gradually build to turbulent vortexes of noise. With Lichens and Ola Podrida. At 8 p.m., Terminal 5, 610 West 56th Street, Clinton, (212) 582-6600, terminal5nyc.com; sold out. (Sisario)FRENCH KICKS (Tuesday) New wave gets a twisted revival in the songs of the French Kicks. Bouncing along on keyboards one moment, facing guitar barbs the next, the songs are as unstable as the romances they sketch. The band has a Tuesday night residency at the Mercury Lounge this month. At 9:30 p.m. with the Subjects, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10. (Sisario) ★ HOT CHIP (Tuesday) With wobbly electronic rhythms and a command of the drippy, semi-ironic disco ballad, this English group plays wistful but still snarky dance music. Get too lost in the beats and you'll miss gags like the oh-so-art-rock countdown of nonsensical words of descending size ("S-E-X-I-N-G, C-A-S-I-O, P-O-K-E"). With Matthew Dear. At 9 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (718) 486-5400, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; sold out. (Sisario)FREEDY JOHNSTON (Thursday) A master miniaturist whose elegant, deadpan stories of the lovelorn and the cruel are set to innocuous folk-pop.  At 9 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $15. (Sisario)ANGELIQUE KIDJO (Saturday) This Benin-born New Yorker brings a raw, powerful voice to sleek Afro-pop. At 8 p.m., Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, Brooklyn College, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush, (718) 951-4500, brooklyncenter.com; $20 and $30. (Sisario)KAKI KING (Wednesday) Ms. King, who began her career busking in subway stations, is a rarity: a virtuosic guitarist who prefers to keep her technique subtle, in the service of a style that is gracefully experimental. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Sisario)GLADYS KNIGHT (Saturday) Gladys Knight's husky alto gave her a career that lasted well past the 1960s glory days of classic Motown, carrying her from "I Heard It Through the Grapevine" to "Midnight Train to Georgia." At 8 p.m., Lehman Center for the Performing Arts, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, at Goulden Avenue, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 960-8833, lehmancenter.org; $55 to $100.(Jon Pareles)JENS LEKMAN (Saturday) Somewhere between Jonathan Richman and Stephin Merritt of Magnetic Fields, this charming Swede has a homely voice and a gift for writing songs that teeter between melancholy and lovable self-deprecation: "My heart is beating/Beating like Ringo." At 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 260-4700, bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Sisario) ★ 'LOVE IN HARD TIMES: THE MUSIC OF PAUL SIMON' (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) This monthlong survey continues with songs from "The Capeman" this weekend, featuring the outstanding Spanish Harlem Orchestra and a roster of Latin vocalists; and, beginning on Wednesday, "Under African Skies," with David Byrne, Ladysmith Black Mambazo, Vusi Mahlasela, Milton Nascimento, Luciana Souza and other luminaries. Friday through Sunday at 8 p.m., Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, $30 to $65. Wednesday at 7 p.m. and Thursday at 8 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, sold out;  (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Sisario) * NICK LOWE AND ROBYN HITCHCOCK (Wednesday) A double bill of stylish English eccentrics: Nick Lowe, three decades ago the "basher" producer of Elvis Costello and Damned, is now a mellowed, white-haired 59-year-old, with confessional songs that draw on classic country and R&B. (He's still a wicked wit, though, in songs like "I Trained Her to Love Me.") Robyn Hitchcock is one of those rare pop songwriters who can credibly be called a surrealist, and in front of an audience he is a hilarious monologuist-improviser. At 8 p.m., Grand Ballroom at the Manhattan Center, 311 West 34th Street, (212) 307-7171, bowerypresents.com; $35. (Sisario) ★ SHELBY LYNNE (Friday) A Nashville refugee, Ms. Lynne has sometimes strayed from the rich, honest country-soul that is her great strength. But on her new album, "Just a Little Lovin' " (Lost Highway), she pays luscious tribute to Dusty Springfield, the paragon of the form, and it feels like a homecoming. At 8 p.m., the Concert Hall at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, concertstonight.com; $40 and $45. (Sisario)MAN MAN (Thursday) Man Man, from Philadelphia,  follows the gutter cabaret of Tom Waits into a rambunctious chaos that has more than a little Captain Beefheart in it. With These Are Powers. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)MONOTONIX, DARK MEAT (Monday) The existence of Monotonix answers one pressing question: Yes, they apparently do have grungy, MC5-like garage-rock in Tel Aviv. Dark Meat, from Athens, Ga., is all about numbers: it's a 17-piece fuzzadelic band whose onstage announcements include introducing songs made up of  "81 words, 1 chord and 11 minutes." At 7:30 p.m., Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; $10. Dark Meat also plays on Tuesday at 8 p.m., Union Pool, 484 Union Avenue, at Meeker Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 609-0484. (Sisario)NINA NASTASIA AND JIM WHITE (Monday) Ms. Nastasia casts an enticing spell with soft and spooky songs accompanied by a guitar touch so light that it's almost faint. Her ideal collaborator is Jim White, the loose and intuitive drummer of the Australian band the Dirty Three. With Phosphorescent and Gary Higgins. At 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $14. (Sisario) ★ ANDY PALACIO TRIBUTE (Friday) Andy Palacio, who died in January, led a revival of the Garifuna music of Central America, a sweet but densely percussive dance style traceable to shipwrecked 17th-century African slaves. This World Music Institute memorial features the outstanding women's group Umalali, in its New York debut; the singers Paul Nabor, Aurelio Martinez and Lloyd Augustine; and Mr. Palacio's band, the Garifuna Collective. At 8 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 545-7536,  worldmusicinstitute.org; $27; $15 for students. (Sisario)SANTANA, DEREK TRUCKS BAND (Tuesday) Using rock instruments to supercharge a salsa band — or is it vice versa? — Carlos Santana came up with a prototype three decades ago for Latin rock, jazz rock, world music and far-reaching jam bands. In the Allman Brothers and on his own, Derek Trucks has started to take on a role similar to the young Eric Clapton's: that of a phenomenally gifted, graceful blues-rock guitarist whose presence makes anything better. At 7:30 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $39.50 to $89.50. (Pareles)SASHA AND DIGWEED (Friday) These superstar trance D.J.'s come to Webster Hall on their first tour in six years. At 10 p.m., 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (917) 723-9381, websterhall.com; $30. (Sisario) ★ SPOON, HANDSOME FURS (Tuesday) Led by Britt Daniel, one of the best songwriters ever to get stuck with the meaningless appellation "indie," Spoon accomplishes a lot with a little. Its tight, jabby songs, influenced equally by minimalist post-punk and sentimental white soul, end just when you think you've figured them out. With Handsome Furs, a guitar-keyboard (and husband-wife) duo whose broken blues seem to thrash desperately against the very idea of home. At 8:30 p.m., Terminal 5, 610 West 56th Street, Clinton, (212) 582-6600, terminal5nyc.com; $20. Handsome Furs also plays on Sunday at 7:30 p.m. with Violens and Jon Benjamin, at the Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15.(Sisario)TESTAMENT (Saturday and Sunday) A canonical thrash-metal band, Testament emerged from the same 1980s San Francisco scene as Metallica, and has soldiered on with album after album of fast, crushing, sneering music — surviving even the cancer scare of its lead singer, Chuck Billy. Saturday at 7 p.m., with Ten Feet From Murder, DTA and others, Starland Ballroom, 570 Jernee Mill Road, Sayreville, N.J., (732) 238-5500, starlandballroom.com; $18. Sunday at 7 p.m., with Full Blown Chaos and others, B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $25. (Sisario)SAUL WILLIAMS, DRAGONS OF ZYNTH (Wednesday) Saul Williams harks back to Public Enemy with angry hip-hop polemics and the heart to back up his words with real-world risks. Dragons of Zynth, from New York, claim to have an "auto-physio-psychic" approach to noisemaking, as well as a dragon-mask mascot that is inevitably tossed around. At 9 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $16.50. (Sisario)★ YA HO WHA 13 (Tuesday) Many bad things happened on cult compounds in Southern California in the 1970s, but Ya Ho Wha 13's "sacred space cadet acid-mantra psychedelic death trips" (as the distributor Forced Exposure has described its music) are not among them. Some of the original members have gotten back together and are playing this very rare reunion show. Robes and beards not required. At 8 p.m., with No Neck Blues Band and others, at the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, knittingfactory.com; $15. (Sisario)FOR CHILDREN'PIGS, BEARS AND BILLY GOATS GRUFF' To children a kitchen is much more than a place for cooking and eating. Forks and spoons double as percussion instruments; pans serve as warriors' helmets; a tabletop is a cottage roof. Where grown-ups see only mealtime, the young see playtime.But the adults of the Patch Theater Company have no such limited vision. Now presenting "Pigs, Bears and Billy Goats Gruff," an adaptation of four traditional tales at the New Victory Theater, this Australian troupe performs on a set that is essentially a kitchen, with a plain table and chairs, French doors and a big metal pot on the shelf. But it doesn't stay a kitchen for long. The chairs stand in as houses in "The Three Little Pigs"; the table becomes the planks of an old bridge in "The Three Billy Goats Gruff"; the gleaming pot is transformed into a queen's crown in "The Three Feathers." (Conveniently, these objects also play themselves in "Goldilocks and the Three Bears.") The show may not have the production values of its neighbor "The Lion King," but it too creates a world of animals, some good, some not, whose fortunes unfold across savannas created only in the imagination.The script by Dave Brown, who also directs, is as straightforward as the props. Although writing for ages 4 to 7, he has not softened the stories' rough edges. Two little pigs end up as soup (that pot comes in handy), and the least familiar narrative, "The Three Feathers," shows that not all fairy-tale frogs turn into beauteous humans. But because the show has no real costumes or special effects, nothing is scary. (One exception: The bridge-owning troll, whose disembodied, mechanically distorted voice — the only use of technology — may remind parents of "The Exorcist.")Songs played onstage by Stuart Day (and by cast members who sing too) enhance the stories, vibrantly enacted by (above, from left): Stephen Sheehan, Jacqy Phillips, Eileen Darley   and Mr. Day. These actors are like the uninhibited relatives who are childhood hits because they get down on the floor and play; you wish they'd never leave.(Friday at 5 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.; 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, 646-223-3010, newvictory.org; $12.50, $25 and $35.) LAUREL GRAEBER  'AESOP'S FOIBLES' (Saturday and Sunday) As the title indicates, this new musical by Aaron Michael Zook takes a somewhat irreverent approach to the ancient tales known as Aesop's fables. Presented by Tuckaberry Productions, the show features Fox and Donkey, who wander the land in search of a happy ending — not always easy to come by in these stories. Along the way Aesop's teachings meet big-band swing. Saturday at 1 and 3 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Impact Theater, 190 Underhill Avenue, near St. Johns Place, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, (845) 797-1320, tuckaberry.com.'ARCHAEOLOGY ZONE: DISCOVERING TREASURES FROM PLAYGROUNDS TO PALACES' (Saturday through Thursday) Children will step into the shoes of an explorer like Indiana Jones in this exhibition at the Jewish Museum, but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of excitement in analyzing artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle, and figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show also includes a recreated home from the Ottoman period (about 1900), where young archaeologists can dress in costume. (Through June 15, 2009.) Saturday through Wednesday, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., and Thursday to 8 p.m., 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. Free with admission: $12; $10 for 65+; $7.50 for students; free for under 12, members and for all on Saturdays. 'THE BAD BOY OF AMERICAN MUSIC' (Sunday) If that title doesn't pique interest, nothing will. This concert, the last of the season in the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center's Meet the Music! series for ages 6 and older, will focus on George Antheil (1900-1950), who liked to emulate machines in his works and loved to rebel against his elders. Sympathetic souls are expected to attend. At 1 and 3 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; $15.BEST OF NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL CHILDREN'S FILM FESTIVAL (Saturday and Sunday) Where can young cinephiles see independent film that's refreshing and creative but still age-appropriate? This festival has always been a reliable source, and this weekend it will begin another series of monthly screenings of past highlights at the IFC Center in Greenwich Village and — for the first time — at the Bronxville Cinema in Westchester and the Red Bank Art Cinema in New Jersey. The film is "Nocturna," a feature from Spain and France (but presented in English) that sold out its showings at the 2008 festival. For ages 4 through 10, it presents a lushly animated universe of mystical creatures (including a guardian fleet of cats) discovered by a boy named Tim as he explores the night. At 11 a.m., 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 349-0330, gkids.com; $11; $8 for members; $7.50 for children.BIG MOVIES FOR LITTLE KIDS (Monday) This series is intended to introduce children 2 to 7 (though all ages are welcome) to classic films. And this 75-minute animated program will also acquaint them with some classic books: the movies are adaptations of the works of Maurice Sendak ("Where the Wild Things Are," "In the Night Kitchen" and others) and Ezra Jack Keats. At 4 p.m., Cobble Hill Cinemas, 265 Court Street, at Butler Street, Brooklyn, (718) 596-4995, bigmoviesforlittlekids.blogspot.com; $6.50.'BRAIN TEASERS' (Saturday through Thursday) Intellects need exercise too, and this exhibition is intended to be push-ups for gray matter. Devised by the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry, it consists of 20 challenges, including number games, visual puzzles and, in one case, handcuffs made of rope. It even includes an enigma, called the Five-Room House, that has never been solved. (Through May 4.) At the Staten Island Children's Museum, 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, (718) 273-2060, statenislandkids.org. Hours: Monday through Friday, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free with admission: $5; free for members.'THE BUTTONHOLE BANDIT: AN INTERGALACTIC MUSICAL FANTASY' (Saturday and Sunday) You never know what you might find buried in a child's messy closet. In Phoebe's case it's an entire galaxy. This new show by Mary Fengar Gail, produced by the Looking Glass Theater, follows the adventures of Phoebe as she helps save the galaxy in the company of an alien called Melf the Gelf. Saturdays at noon and 2 p.m., Sundays at 2 and 4 p.m., 422 West 57th Street, Clinton, (212) 307-9467, lookingglasstheatrenyc.com; $15; $12 for 12 and under. 'THE CAT WHO WENT TO HEAVEN' (Saturday, Sunday and Tuesday) At least one of the cats involved with the jazz in this production is the kind that meows instead of scats. Nancy Harrow, the creator of the jazz-and-puppet show "Maya the Bee," has returned to Culture Project with a new piece based on the Newbery Medal-winning book by Elizabeth Coatsworth. It's all about a struggling Japanese artist and the mysterious cat that seems to change his fortunes. (Through June.) Saturday at 10 a.m.; Sunday and Tuesday at 7 p.m.; 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 352-3101, cultureproject.org; $20.CHILDREN'S READING SERIES (Saturday) The 92nd Street Y will conclude its first season of children's readings with a writer whose name would seem to promise kinship with the young: Andrew Motion. Kids may not be familiar with Mr. Motion — he's the British poet laureate — but they are sure to enjoy his performance, which will include his favorite children's poems by authors like Beatrix Potter, Rudyard Kipling and Lewis Carroll. At 1 p.m., 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $10.'CHOCOLATE AND VANILLA ADVENTURES' (Friday through Sunday) This is the kind of exploring anyone can do: a discovery of the wonderful plants that give us chocolate and vanilla at the New York Botanical Garden. Children will examine vanilla beans and vanilla orchids and chocolate seeds and spices, and keep a field journal. And yes, tasting is involved. Friday, 1:30 to 5:30 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. in the botanical garden's Everett Children's Adventure Garden, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. Admission, which includes the Orchid Show and all displays, is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $7 for ages 2 to 12 and free for under 2.'A DOLPHIN UP A TREE!' (Sunday) The only dolphins around New York can be found in the water, typically in the aquarium on Coney Island. But these days at least one member of the species occupies a far more unusual position: up a tree in Manhattan. In this show for ages 2 to 8 by Kimberly Foster (book and lyrics) and John Fleming (music and lyrics), the title character is actually a little girl named Tina, and she has far more to worry about than just being beached in some branches. (Through April 13.) At 10:30 a.m. and noon, DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200; $20.FAMILY ART DAY (Sunday) Having an autistic spectrum disorder does not preclude artistic talent; some with these conditions show extraordinary gifts. In honor of National Autism Awareness Month (April) the JCC in Manhattan is presenting "The Artistic Spectrum: Artwork by Young People on the Autistic Spectrum," a show of work by artists ages 10 to 21 (through April 24). On Sunday it is inviting children of all abilities to make art projects, tour the exhibition and enjoy refreshments. All will receive an "Artistic Spectrum" backpack. From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., 334 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street, (646) 505-5708,  jccmanhattan.org; free.'GUSTAFER YELLOWGOLD'S MELLOW SENSATION' (Saturday) Ready for a new kind of mellow yellow? Hailing from the Sun and looking like an animated drop of butter, Gustafer Yellowgold is the creation of the illustrator and composer Morgan Taylor, now presenting Gustafer in his Off Broadway debut. Like Gustafer's other appearances, this run includes live music, slides and narration. (Through May 17.) At 11 a.m. and 2 p.m., DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200; $20.HAGGADAH COVER FAMILY WORKSHOP (Sunday) Passover is almost here, and the haggadah — the book each participant reads from during the seder — is easily battered from seasons of use. This workshop at the Yeshiva University Museum will enable children 6 and older to make an embossed aluminum cover for the book, using metal tooling techniques and artificial jewels. (Each child must bring a haggadah for measuring.) (Also on April 13.) From 2 to 4 p.m., Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 294-8330; yumuseum.org. Free with museum admission: $8; $6 for students, 65+ and ages 5 through 16.'HANNAH AND THE HOLLOW CHALLAH' (Saturday and Sunday) Alice travels down a rabbit hole, Dorothy journeys in a tornado-propelled house, and Hannah — well, Hannah goes to another world in a hollowed-out loaf of challah. In this new comedy for ages 4 to 12 by Alice Eve Cohen, with puppets by Emily DeCola, Hannah's trip takes her to Bread Land, where everyone is made of bread. At 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., the 78th Street Theater Lab, 236 West 78th Street, Manhattan, (212) 352-3101; $12 to $18.'IF YOU GIVE A MOUSE A COOKIE' (Saturday and Sunday) Manhattan Children's Theater has revived Jody Davidson's witty adaptation of Laura Joffe Numeroff's picture book, which suggests that if you give a mouse a cookie, it's going to want a glass of milk, and if you give it the milk, it's going to want a napkin, and if you give it the napkin, it will request a mirror, and so on. And if you give this show your time, it will reward you greatly. (Through May 18.) At noon and 2 p.m., 52 White Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, mctny.org; $20, $15 for children and 65+.'THE JUMPIN' JUNIPER SHOW' (Sunday) The New York arts scene has a new M.C.: Jumpin' Juniper, who runs the series that bears her name at Brooklyn Arts Exchange. Said to be a 100-year-old forest sprite, Juniper has a youthful outlook, as demonstrated in this program with Tony Corsano and the Family Jam. He and his band will offer music, stories and comedy. At 2 p.m., 421 Fifth Avenue, at Eighth Street, Park Slope, (718) 832-0018, bax.org. Suggested donation: $10; $8 for under 12 and low-income families.KIDSCREATE (Sunday) There are precocious children, and then there are really precocious children. Those featured in this monthly workshop series for ages 5 and older at the Children's Museum of Manhattan definitely fall into the "really" category: they are authors, inventors, entrepreneurs, scientists. This installment features the young environmentalist Hunter Gross, 12, who started the Kool Company, which sells natural canvas products as replacements for many paper and plastic goods. Children who sign up for the program will join him in an activity. At 3 and 4 p.m., the Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, (212) 721-1223, cmom.org. Free with museum admission: $9; $6 for 65+; free for members.LITTLE LEAGUE PARADE (Saturday) The opening of the season for the Major Leagues also means preparing for Little League. Prospect Park in Brooklyn will celebrate the occasion with its annual parade, culminating in an Opening Day ceremony at the park's band shell. And baseball isn't all that's starting: the day also signifies the beginning of carousel rides, electric boat tours and other spring treats in the park. Parade at 10 a.m., starting at Seventh Avenue and Carroll Street, Park Slope, (718) 965-8999, prospectpark.org; free.PERCUSSION PEOPLE (Sunday) Instrument building is on the menu at the monthly concerts presented by this group, which explores the range of percussion instruments across cultures. Drumming enthusiasts (and what child isn't one?) are encouraged to arrive at 10:30 a.m. and make their own instruments for the concert, which starts at 11. At the Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, near West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, theplayerstheatre.com; $25.'THE PIEMAKER' (Friday through Sunday) This show may make you hungry. With a book by Ryan Gilliam, executive director of the youth theater company Downtown Art, and music and lyrics by Mike Hickey, it is set in 1978 in a country diner in Iowa, where the pies are famous. But the subject is also the 60s, reflected in the rock score of the production, aimed at ages 7 and older. (Through April 27.) Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m., Downtown Art, 61 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 479-0885, downtownart.org; $10; $5 for children.'PINKALICIOUS, THE MUSICAL' (Friday through Sunday) It's time to think pink again. This show from Vital Children's Theater has been revived, so if you missed it last year, you can now catch it at New World Stages. Elizabeth and Victoria Kann adapted their children's book, in which the pink-obsessed title character finds out that sometimes being in the pink can be too much of a good thing. (John Gregor wrote the score and some of the lyrics.) (Through May 25.) Saturday at 2 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, vitaltheatre.org; $29.50.'REALLY ROSIE' (Saturday and Sunday) Every neighborhood seems to have its diva, and in the Brooklyn streets of Maurice Sendak's childhood, it was Rosie, a little Italian girl. Mr. Sendak wrote about Rosie, and now she is starring in the latest musical production from Atlantic for Kids. Mr. Sendak wrote the book and lyrics, and Carole King composed the music. Those credits are enough to make anyone act like a diva. At 10:30 a.m., the Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (646) 216-1190; $15; $5 for under 12 and Atlantic Theater Company members.BEN RUDNICK AND FRIENDS (Sunday) Whether it's Beatles' tunes or "Over the Rainbow," Ben Rudnick and his band seem to play it. In this family concert they'll offer plenty of original tunes — bluegrass, rock, calypso — as well as twists on old favorites. At noon, Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, near Bleecker Street, East Village, (212) 614-0505, bowerypoetry.com; $10.'SHEL-EBRATION' (Saturday) That's Shel as in Shel Silverstein, the author of many books of poetry beloved by children (and not a few adults). The New York Public Library honors his life and work in this program, which will include readings, a concert by the Brooklyn band Astrograss and a drawing for a door prize: his first book of poetry, "Don't Bump the Glump!: And Other Fantasies." At 2:30 p.m., Donnell Library Center, second floor, 20 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 621-0636, nypl.org; free.'THE SILLY JELLY FISH' (Saturday) Forget about Cupid. Under the sea, at least, the uniter of lonely hearts appears to be a silly jellyfish. In this production, based on a Japanese folk tale, the jellyfish sets out to help a lovesick sea dragon. Performed by the Hudson Vagabond Puppets, the show will include the troupe's signature giant creations, like a 40-foot-long whale. At 2 p.m., Kingsborough Community College Performing Arts Center, 2001 Oriental Boulevard, Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn, (718) 368-6680, www.kbcc.cuny.edu/kcc_arts/children.html ; $10.'A (TOOTH) FAIRY TALE' (Saturday and Sunday) In the film "Bruce Almighty," Bruce changed places with God; in this musical from Vital Children's Theater, written by Rick Hip-Flores and Ben H. Winter, the exchange is a bit more humble but equally complicated. Oliver, tired of being a kid, trades positions with the Tooth Fairy, who's sick of retrieving teeth and delivering change under pillows. (Through May 25.) Saturday and Sunday at noon, SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555, sohoplayhouse.com; $25.'THE TOP JOB' (Saturday and Sunday) Children don't need many excuses to feel embarrassed over their parents, and Jenna is dreading her turn in Career Day at school, when her father is revealed to be a light bulb changer. But in this musical from Vital Children's Theater, adapted from the book by Elizabeth Cody Kimmel, Jenna discovers that some of her father's duties are highly unusual. (Through April 27.) At 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., McGinn Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, fourth floor, (212) 352-3101, vitaltheatre.org; $18.'THE TOY CASTLE' (Saturday and Sunday) In the PBS television series of the same title, toys like a ballerina, a rag doll and a goblin come to life when everyone else is asleep. Now they're frolicking in a new location: the stage. This one-hour adaptation for ages 2 to 6, presented by New York Theater Ballet, will include a preshow movement class for the audience and the distribution of small bags of props; here everyone's a dancer. (Through April 13.) At 11 a.m. and 1 and 3:30 p.m., Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6160, nytb.org; $30; $25 for 12 and under.UNIVERSOUL CIRCUS (Friday through Thursday) Don't expect hurdy-gurdy tunes at this big-top event. Billed as featuring the only African-American ringmasters in the country, the Universoul Circus performs its acts to hip-hop, R&B, soul and gospel. This year's show, "Jabulani: Joy, Happiness & Laughter," presents acts from around the world, including China and Russia. Friday, and Tuesday through Thursday, at 10:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.; Saturday at 1, 4:30 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 12:30, 3:30 and 6:30 p.m. Through April 13 in the Wollman Rink Lot, near the Parkside and Ocean Avenue entrance, Prospect Park, (800) 316-7439, ticketmaster.com; $17 to $28.50; $15 to $26.50 for 10 and under; all 10:30 a.m. shows, $11.'THE VELVETEEN RABBIT' (Saturday and Sunday) Literally Alive Children's Theater, which dramatizes literary works, offers a musical "Velveteen Rabbit" that manages no easy feat: it is both upbeat and faithful to its source, Margery Williams's poignant 1922 children's classic. Before the show, which has a book and lyrics by Brenda Bell and music by Mark McGee, young audience members can join a workshop to help decorate the stage and make themselves rabbit ears. (Through May 11.) Workshop ($5) at 11 a.m., show at noon, Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, near West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 866-5170, literallyalive.com; $25; $20 for children.DAVID WEINSTONE AND THE MUSIC FOR AARDVARKS BAND (Sunday) Music for aardvarks is also music for children, as Mr. Weinstone, a former punk rocker, will demonstrate in two concerts for ages 2 to 5 at the Jewish Museum. His group specializes in tunes for urban kids, as you can tell from titles like "Subway" and "Staten Island Ferry." At 11:30 a.m. and 2 p.m., 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3337, the jewishmuseum.org; $15; $10 for children; $12 and $8 for family-level members. LAUREL GRAEBER DANCEDAVID DORFMAN AND DAN FROOT Almost 20 years ago the choreographer David Dorfman, above right,  and the jazz musician and performance artist Dan Froot, left, made a dance called "Horn." Dressed in kilts and not much else, they muscled through exhausting dance maneuvers, all the while playing saxophones. This weekend they will reprise "Horn" (also performing  "Bull," from 1994, and a new work, "Wolf"), and audiences will have the rare treat of seeing how such a duet might age — something its creators are still figuring out themselves. "Even thinking about 47- and 50-year-old bodies doing what 30-year-old bodies made up," Mr. Froot said, "even that really gives one pause."Laughing, Mr. Dorfman corrected his age to 52. "I feel a little bit of boyishness coming out," he added, along with "the challenge of 'Wow, can we really get through these pieces?' "Beneath these questions lie more philosophical inquiries into the nature of male relationships: What is allowed in a society that wants its men to be, as Mr. Froot put it, "strong and silent"? What are the codes of conduct? Both artists agreed that these topics remained as pertinent now as when they made "Horn" and its companion piece, "Bull," which takes macho behavior to ridiculous heights. "When we crack ourselves up in rehearsal," Mr. Froot said, "we know we're onto something that either makes us uncomfortable, or pushes the envelope.""Wolf," meanwhile, explores issues that pertain more to the middle-aged men they've since become: how do we protect our families, how do we look to the future? "It's not so much about making our little dance piece," Mr. Dorfman said, "but, O.K., what do we do with the rest of our years?" (Friday and Saturday at 8:30 p.m., Leonard Nimoy Thalia Theater, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, 212-864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $25; $30 on the day of show.) CLAUDIA LA ROCCO Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.BALLET TECH'S MANDANCE PROJECT (Wednesday and Thursday) He's baa-aack. Eliot Feld, the man who thought up the Joyce Theater 25 years ago, will present two programs over two weeks. Mr. Feld has gone through a lot of names over the years. While he's currently sticking with the Mandance Project, the real standout of this stint may be the female Fang-Yi Sheu, the former Martha Graham Dance Company star for whom the idiosyncratic Mr. Feld has created "Isis in Transit," one of two premieres. (Through April 20.) At 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $30.(Claudia La Rocco)'BREAKING GROUND': DOUG VARONE AND DEBORAH JOWITT (Sunday) Deborah Jowitt, one of the most influential dance critics, will talk with Doug Varone, a leading modern-dance choreographer who has also worked in theater, opera, film, television and fashion. At 7 p.m., 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Center, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $25.(Jennifer Dunning)BUGLISI DANCE THEATER (Friday) Jacqulyn Buglisi will be represented by dances inspired by a friend's death on 9/11, Venezuelan rain forests and the painters Caravaggio and Edward Hopper. The program also includes a duet by Donlin Foreman and a Denishawn solo. At 8 p.m., LaGuardia Performing Arts Center, LaGuardia Community College, 47th Avenue at Van Dam Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 482-5151, laguardiaperformingarts.org; $15; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning)CARRIE AHERN DANCE (Friday and Saturday) "The Unity of Skin," inspired by pre-Socratic Greek philosophers, is danced in a malleable, crocheted set that changes as the performance progresses. At 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, danspaceproject.org; $15. (Jack Anderson)DANCE CONVERSATIONS @ THE FLEA (Tuesday) This month's free conversation and performance will showcase work by Macushla Roulleau, Amber Sloan, Roxanne Steinberg and the Aynsley Vandenbroucke Movement Group. The moderator is Melinda Ring. At 7 p.m., Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa,  (212) 226-2407, theflea.org.(Dunning)ALEX ESCALANTE (Thursday) In "Clandestino," Alex Escalante probes that exasperating, permeable thing called culture and how people seek to maintain it, independent of national borders. His tools of choice include Mexican social dance, fine performers like Pedro Osorio and one of the best lighting designers in the game, Joe Levasseur. (Through April 12.) At 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, danspaceproject.org; $15.(La Rocco)GORILLA CREW (Friday through Sunday) Direct from Seoul, South Korea, Gorilla Crew will present "B-Alive!," described as a hip-hop spectacle about a young ballerina and a streetwise b-boy, directed by Byungkoo Ahn. Friday at 7:30 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m.; La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org; $30. (Dunning)★ HARLEM STAGE: 'E-MOVES' (Friday through Sunday) Tap will be celebrated in this year's "E-Moves" festival, a series devoted to work by "E-Merging, E-Volving and E-Stablished choreographers of color." The E-Mergents include Francine E. Ott, Jacinta Vlach, House of Ninja, Ballet Noir, Mina Nishimura and Chloe Arnold. They will share a program on Friday and Sunday with the E-Volvers Hattie Mae Williams, Nelida Tirado, Andre Machari Zachery and Alexandria Bradley, known as Brinae Ali. The E-Stablished crew — Tamango and Francesca Harper — take over on Saturday. (Through April 13.) Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Harlem Stage Gatehouse, 150 Convent Avenue, at West 135th Street, Hamilton Heights, (212) 281-9240, harlemstage.org; $22; $17 for neighborhood residents. (Dunning)PAULA HUNTER: 'I AM KAREN FINLEY' (Friday through Sunday) In this free one-woman show, presented by Chashama in a storefront window, Paula Hunter is dressed in a white wedding gown as she transforms herself into a landscape of junk food. Friday at noon and 6 p.m.; Saturday at 6 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Chashama, 217 East 42nd Street, Manhattan, chashama.org. (Dunning)LYDIA JOHNSON DANCE (Friday through Sunday) Lydia Johnson continues to weave elements of ballet and modern dance in her own distinctive, thoughtful way in "Lament," set to music by Henryk Gorecki, and "Dream Sequence," set to pop music sung by Dean Martin. Gorecki is one of Ms. Johnson's favorite composers, and the choreography for "Dream Sequence" recalls the television variety shows of her childhood. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com or lydiajohnsondance.org; $25; $15 for students, dancers and 65+.(Dunning)★ KIROV BALLET (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) One of the world's oldest and greatest ballet companies presents a remarkable assortment of one-act ballets that include 19th-century Russian classics and 20th-century works by George Balanchine, Harald Lander and William Forsythe. (Through April 20.) Friday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Tuesday through Thursday at 7:30 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org; $35 to $110.(Anderson)'MERCE MY WAY: THE MERCE CUNNINGHAM DANCE COMPANY IN PHOTOGRAPHS' (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) Shhh. Don't tell anyone. Mikhail Baryshnikov, who has played ballet princes and cockroaches, is a closet photographer. His images of Merce Cunningham and his dancers are on view in a new exhibition. (Through May 4.) 401 Projects, 401 West Street, at Charles Street, West Village, (212) 750-7070, 401projects.com. (Dunning)MOVEMENT RESEARCH AT THE JUDSON CHURCH (Monday) These days choreographic showcases are a dime a dozen, and many include in-process works that have (or claim) an experimental bent. The Movement Research series may not be as zany or sexy as some (it happens in a church, for Pete's sake), but it's still the gold standard. This week Ali Kenner, Lily Kiara and Despina Stamos present their work; I can't tell you what to expect, but I suspect that, whatever it is, it will be interesting. At 8 p.m., Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 598-0551, movementresearch.org.(La Rocco)'NEW YORK STORY: JEROME ROBBINS AND HIS WORLD' (Friday, Saturday, and Monday through Thursday) Jerome Robbins, a Broadway and ballet choreographer who created a style of artless-looking dance inflected with the rhythms of urban America and 19th-century classical ballet traditions, is celebrated on the 10th anniversary of his death in this exhibition. It includes costumes, designs, photographs and rare film footage of his work. This free show runs through June 28. New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 642-0142, nypl.org.  (Dunning)PEAK PERFORMANCES: LIZ LERMAN DANCE EXCHANGE (Thursday) Liz Lerman's "Ferocious Beauty: Genome," a multimedia piece, weaves dance with observations by scientists. It seeks to ask and answer a multitude of fundamental questions about aging, ancestry and evolution after the discovery of the human genome. (Through April 13.) At 7:30 p.m., Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, Montclair, N.J., (973) 655-5112, peakperfs.org; $15. (Dunning)PEARSONWIDRIG DANCETHEATER (Thursday) Sara Pearson and Patrik Widrig will present excerpts from their intriguingly titled "Partners Who Touch, Partners, Who Don't Touch"  and the new "Katrina, Katrina: Love Letters to New Orleans," as well as a multimedia work-in-progress set to music by Karinne Keithley. (Through April 12.) At 8:30 p.m., Thalia Theater at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $25. (Dunning)★ STEPHEN PETRONIO COMPANY (Friday through Sunday) Two premieres reveal how the restless choreographer Stephen Petronio's continuing interest in movement invention and architectural formal structure can intersect with the worlds of popular culture, art, rock music and fashion, thereby juxtaposing the jaggedly raw and the sensuously sleek. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m.; Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $40; $25 on Sunday evening.(Anderson)PI DANCE THEATER (Friday and Saturday) Toni Taylor, whose influences include her belly-dancing mother and Bella Lewitzky, has displayed an enjoyably forthright approach to modern dance and its mysteries in past choreography. In "Coincidental Decade" she will present a 10th-anniversary selection of pieces set to music by composers and performers including Peter Sculthorpe, David Drinkwater, the Kronos Quartet and the Miles Davis Quartet. At 8 p.m., Speyer Hall, University Settlement, 184 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side, (212) 586-0681, pidancetheatre.wordpress.com; $15. (Dunning)★ GLEN RUMSEY DANCE PROJECT (Friday and Saturday) Glen Rumsey will revive his 2005  "ignored in my heaven ...,"  a suite of dances that bring dreams to vivid stage life with the help of David Quinn, Mr. Rumsey's imaginative design collaborator. At 8 p.m., Location One, 26 Greene  Street, near Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 334-3347, glenrumsey.com; $15. (Dunning)'THE VOYAGE OF THE HUI CORRA' (Friday through Monday) This latest of Christopher Williams's curious theater-dance pieces is inspired by the sixth- and seventh-century Irish adventure tales known as Immrama ("rowings about" or "voyaging"), in which saints, heroes or otherwise troubled men are often set adrift in boats without oars to end up in uncharted lands with mysterious inhabitants. At 8 p.m., New York University, Tisch School of the Arts, 111 Second Avenue, at Seventh Street, Fifth Floor Theater, East Village, (212) 998-1982, christopherwilliamsdance.org; free. (Dunning)★ WORKS & PROCESS AT THE GUGGENHEIM: JENNIFER TIPTON (Sunday and Monday) Jennifer Tipton will discuss lighting for dance and drama in a conversation with the choreographer Dana Reitz, the director Jackson Gay and the set designer Ola Maslik. At 7:30 p.m., Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3587, guggenheim.org; $30; $10 for students. (Dunning)CHRIS YON (Wednesday and Thursday) "Hugo," Chris Yon's new work, is only an hour long, but don't be fooled: he packs a heady punch. You try explaining the world to people living 50,000 years in the future and see how far you get in 60 minutes. No? Then leave it to this band of smart, funny experts. (Through April 12.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; $12 to $20. (La Rocco)
