AUSTIN, Tex. — Adam Elliott, the drummer and singer of Times New Viking, summed up the South by Southwest Music festival between the frenetic songs by his band, a three-piece from Columbus, Ohio. Even if Times New Viking were no good, he said, "there's a thousand other bands."  He added,  "Those odds are pretty good."He underestimated both his band and the choices. South by Southwest, known as SXSW,  presented 1,775 bands in its official showcases, and with unofficial shows there were easily more than 2,000 bands performing in Austin during the festival's four busy days, Wednesday through Saturday, along with a few stragglers on Sunday.So this is not exactly an overview of SXSW, where showcases and daytime symposiums are well organized and what surrounds them is a ruckus of business and pleasure. One person could attend only a small percentage of the music.There were about 12,500 registered participants at the convention, as well as the members of those 1,775 bands. Unofficial events — parties, promotions, and concerts like the 10-hour "Mess With Texas 2" show on Saturday — have swarmed around the official festival, providing additional chances to hear groups as word-of-mouth spreads.White Denim, the Austin band that was the supercharged finale for my own SXSW — a power trio with a rocketing, punk-speed take on twangy Texas garage-rock — played seven shows from March 11 to 15. Lykke Li, a Swedish singer who delivered pop love songs with a cutting voice and wily acoustic arrangments, performed in four places on Friday alone.SXSW Music takes place after the SXSW conventions on film and digital media, and the music festival is thoroughly Internet-savvy. Hundreds of songs from bands performing at the festival are available as free mp3's at sxsw.com, along with video of presentations and performances.Although SXSW is well adapted to the digital era, in some ways it is firmly old-fashioned. While it is a showcase for young bands, it's an all-ages event. Lou Reed, whose keynote for the convention was an onstage interview, also dropped by to perform with younger groups paying him tribute. Daniel Lanois, who has produced albums for U2 and Bob Dylan, showed his new in-the-studio documentary, "Here Is What Is," and performed his own songs and guitar pieces around town in duets with the drummer Brian Blade that moved between serenity and clangor. The Minimalist composer Steve Reich was also at SXSW to speak and to play host for performances of his compositions.Lesser-known bits of rock history resurfaced, including a revival of the Homosexuals, a punk-era British band that made only one album of its jumpy, idiosyncratically structured songs. Its 57-year-old leader, Bruno Wizard, cackled and mocked the music business during a set at Spiro's.SXSW is a bastion of that endangered artistic unit, the album. The Lemonheads played through "It's a Shame About Ray," a 1992 album being rereleased this year.Van Morrison, R.E.M. and My Morning Jacket built nearly their entire concerts on material from their new or coming albums,  and each one played a committed, enthralling set. Mr. Morrison's new songs held the sting of the blues; R.E.M. has reinvigorated its old guitar-band style for an album aptly titled "Accelerate"; and My Morning Jacket's new songs put a streak of R&B — from funk riffs to falsetto vocals — in its ringing, expansive Southern rock. (R.E.M., My Morning Jacket and many other bands, including the perky collegiate New York City rockers Vampire Weekend, had their SXSW performances broadcast on NPR, where they can still be heard at npr.org/music.)The most pervasive old-school choice at SXSW is gearing the festival toward live performance far more than recording. While recording companies (mostly independent ones) are well represented, SXSW also draws the booking agents, managers and club owners who provide more immediate support for musicians. In an era of plummeting CD sales and free downloads, most musicians survive on live performances, as the ancient model of the troubadour returns in the digital age.At SXSW concert promoters can sample bands that are being, in essence, battle tested: playing abbreviated sets on hastily assembled equipment to unfamiliar audiences in Austin's peculiarly shaped clubs. It's a good test too for longtime rock stars who are, for the moment, not entirely in control, choosing to prove themselves against the energy of younger bands.Another model for a musician's career is to sell rights to songs as background music for soundtracks and commercials. That encourages exactly what live performance does not: reticence and generality rather than the vividness and specificity of a performance. Yael Naim, whose song "New Souls" grew popular through an Apple commercial, played a set determined to show she has more than 60 seconds of worthwhile music; she poured her rich voice into songs about loneliness and longing, and got a tent full of music-business professionals to sing along.But some of my favorite bands at the festival were those that made their impact on the spot. Times New Viking merged guitar-rock and the keyboard drive of German rock; the Dodos, from San Francisco, worked up to manic propulsion with hard-strummed acoustic guitar and plinking toy piano. Atlas Sounds filled a club with guitar drone; then one member proffered an amplifier to audience members for knob-turning and extra feedback.There were also gentler performers, like Laura Marling, a British teenager who writes folky, haunted songs, and Hanne Hukkelberg, a Norwegian songwriter who sang (in English) about the forces of nature in complex, odd-meter songs that sometimes had a tuba for their foundation.With so many bands, SXSW encompassed genres from art-rock to zydeco. Although SXSW started in 1987 as a showcase for regional Southwestern music and independent bands and is still a vital stop for roots-rockers, it has also recognized that hip-hop entrepreneurship is every bit as do-it-yourself as indie-rock's. Top-tier rappers including Ice Cube performed at this year's festival, along with acts like David Banner, Clipse, Del the Funky Homosapien, the Cool Kids, and Cadence Weapon.The festival is also treated as a gateway to the American market by foreign governments, which subsidize delegations of musicians. Britain had its own "embassy," with a full schedule of bands through the convention. And it sent bands that have already been winnowed at home, including the irresistibly catchy Ting Tings, a duo who now have a major-label contract in the United States. They pump out danceable riffs echoing the 1960's and 1970's, while Katie White gets worked up with complaints like, "That's not my name."Two other British bands also played fiercely kinetic groves: Does It Offend You, Yeah?, which ran on the dance-rock beats and synthesizer buzz of the late 1970's, and These New Puritans, whose dissonant stomp and dark lyrics reached back to Public Image Limited and the Fall.Yet South by Southwest is more than a marathon audition. It's a chance for social networking  in real time and space. The exhilaration of so many performances in such a short time is a morale booster for both business people and fans, and an annual reminder that the fortunes and misfortunes of the recording business don't stop the music.A HARSH wind is blowing around the four members of the B-52s as they view Lower Manhattan from a seventh-floor observation balcony at the New Museum, which rises over a nearby flophouse on a gentrifying stretch of the Bowery. From this height, they can see every newly opened bar, cafe and boutique. "The neighborhood didn't look anything like this," said the guitarist Keith Strickland, 54, referring to the late 1970s, when these new wave pioneers from Athens, Ga., first conquered the downtown rock scene. "I walked out this morning and said, 'Where am I?' "A few minutes earlier, the band, which also includes the vocalists Kate Pierson, 59, Cindy Wilson, 51, and Fred Schneider, 56, had traveled a few short blocks south from the retro-chic Bowery Hotel, which opened on the site of a former gas station last year. Along the way, the four had passed the shuttered storefront of CBGB, the punk club, now defunct, where fans in Fiorucci dresses and vintage sharkskin suits lined up to hear the band's primal yet lyrically futurist dance-rock. "Oh, CBGBs," Ms. Wilson said mournfully."Kiss it for luck," Mr. Strickland said to Mr. Schneider."I'm not kissing that," he replied with a mock shudder.On the eve of "Funplex" (Astralwerks), the band's first studio release in 16 years, the B-52s are reckoning with a new frontier that barely resembles the one they imagined on optimistic tracks like their 1983 single "Song for a Future Generation." "We have to jump back into the void we left behind," Mr. Schneider said. "We've gone through three different types of music eras or styles since we put out our last album. People watched MTV. Now everyone's on the In-ter-net."New wave's most unapologetic loons, the B-52s crashed the Billboard chart with their self-titled debut in 1979. On the album cover, the female members wore beehive wigs; Mr. Schneider dressed like an oily used-car salesman, complete with pencil mustache. "It wasn't like we said, 'We need an outrageous look,' " Ms. Pierson said. "That was what we wore to parties."While most rock fans were listening to Billy Joel and REO Speedwagon, the B-52s were harmonizing about giant lobsters, headless space invaders and Jacqueline Onassis. Onstage the band did extinct dances like the mashed potato. Some people got it. Many did not. Occasionally, University of Georgia students pelted the members with garbage. But the B-52s' unusual mix of the avant-garde (they cite John Cage and Yoko Ono as influences), 1960s fashion (Diana Vreeland is another hero) and party-friendly pop (girl groups, garage rock) eventually struck a nerve, winning fans like John Lennon and a young Kurt Cobain. And every few years they enjoy a high-profile rediscovery. Most recently their first hit, "Rock Lobster," was the soundtrack for the drunken conception of a baby in the film "Knocked Up."By definition, new wavers should never become oldies acts, but the B-52s have been touring clubs and theaters on and off since the late 1990s. While many of their reactivated contemporaries, like the Police, have not recorded new material, the B-52s were growing tired of playing the same songs every night and desired a fresher set list. "I don't wanna rehash the past," Ms. Pierson and Mr. Wilson sing on the new "Eyes Wide Open." "I just want release." To that end, "Funplex" has a much more modern sheen than its predecessors. The band's twangy guitar riffs used to be accompanied by cowbell, organ and a steady backbeat. Now songs like "Juliet of the Spirits" have a shimmering electronic feel too. And, Mr. Schneider said, the group moved on to singing "about the year 3000."But one thing will never change: When the band embarks on the True Colors tour with Cyndi Lauper and Joan Jett this summer, Ms. Wilson and Ms. Pierson will be wearing their trademark wigs, lest the audience riot. "There are times when I wish we could just be like the Indigo Girls," Ms. Pierson said with a sigh. "But we've got to maintain the hair.""I used to think the importance of the band gets lost, or overshadowed, by the hairdos and the outfits," she added. But now she realizes that "our most important legacy is that people had fun.""They come up to us and say, 'You got us through high school,' " she said.Mr. Strickland befriended Ms. Wilson's brother, the band's co-founder and guitarist, Ricky Wilson (who died of AIDS in 1985), at school in Athens in the early 1970s. Ms. Pierson, a New Jersey native, wound up in that liberal college town after vagabonding in the '60s. Mr. Schneider, also from the Garden State, intended to study forestry at the University of Georgia. According to band lore, the B-52s (named after local slang for their female singers' signature beehives) formed after sharing a five-strawed Polynesian cocktail at a Chinese restaurant, which led to a jam session at a friend's house.The first song they wrote was about killer bees. Their best song was about a beach party gone bloody. By 1977 the band scored a short gig at Max's Kansas City in New York, where some people in the crowd assumed that the women in the band were drag queens. "We were nervous as hell," Mr. Schneider said. "Everyone was standing there with their arms folded."They were convinced that they'd bombed, but the booker invited them back. By the time "Rock Lobster" was released as an independent single in 1978, the B-52s were drawing the likes of William S. Burroughs, David Bowie and John Cale to their Manhattan shows.Punk was evolving into the much more marketable and accessible new wave, with bands like the Cars and Talking Heads enjoying hit debuts. A major-label bidding war ensued; the band signed with Warner Brothers and released its debut album, "The B-52's," in 1979. The album went gold and the follow-up, "Wild Planet," cracked the Top 20 in 1980. In 1982 the group even performed the song "Private Idaho" on the CBS soap opera "The Guiding Light." "That inspired a whole generation of actors," Mr. Schneider quipped. "Angelina Jolie became an actress after seeing it."Their next few albums had only marginal success, which was partly related to the band's grief over Mr. Wilson's death at 32. So for "Cosmic Thing," the group's sixth album, released in 1989, the band enlisted as co-producer Chic's Nile Rodgers, who had worked on second-act hits for David Bowie and Duran Duran. "I had them do things on that album that they'd never done before," said Mr. Rodgers, which included painstaking multiple tracking of Ms. Wilson and Ms. Pierson's trademark harmonies. "I remember, when I finished, calling the record company and saying, 'I hope you do the right thing here, 'cause you got a smash on your hands.' "He was right; the record sold four million copies and spawned the B-52s' best-known hits, "Love Shack" and "Roam." But the band, whose members still considered themselves outsiders at heart, "wasn't ready for the bigness of that record," Mr. Rodgers said. By 1992, when "Good Stuff" was released, the group was floundering."We had not had that kind of success before, and everything changed," Mr. Strickland said. "For me it got too heavy. It just had to stop."This decade, during the '80s revival, young D.J.'s began playing B-52s songs at parties. Geordon Nicol, of the Manhattan D.J. and promotions trio Misshapes, remembers playing "Planet Claire" at a packed party, but to his surprise, "It didn't go over so well," he said in an e-mail message. "I couldn't understand how such an incredible song could go over everyone's heads like that." He thinks that there is a certain stigma attached to saying you love the B-52s, at least for those "who think 'Love Shack' and 'Roam' are all the band has to offer — most people miss out."What was supposed to be a brief break from recording lasted well over a decade. In that time, Ms. Wilson formed the Cindy Wilson Band, Mr. Schneider became a satellite radio D.J., and Ms. Pierson opened Kate's Lazy Meadow, a motel in the Catskills with theme suites like "The Annie Oakley" and "The Sakajawia." Meanwhile, Mr. Strickland learned how to use Pro Tools recording software. "I was listening to a lot of electronic dance music and early rock 'n' roll," Mr. Strickland said, "and it occurred to me that I should put these two sounds together with our own sound. That was the magic formula. Then all these ideas started coming out again."The band gathered in Athens and upstate New York to jam and quickly decided that it was time to record again. Mr. Strickland suggested the title "Funplex" after a word he'd seen in a newspaper. For the first time, the band's lyrics are highly carnal. "I am now an eroticist," Mr. Schneider sings on "Deviant Ingredient." "I am a fully eroticized being. I have no neurosis." On "Ultraviolet" he sings, "There's the G spot/Pull the car over," which will surely end up in the museum of groaners some day."It surprised me," Mr. Strickland said of his bandmates' lyrics. "Little did I know they were going to get all sexy" in their 50s.But the B-52s have always celebrated music's power to "make you feel a lot better," as the early song "Dance This Mess Around" proclaims. Its lyrics list 16 dances, like the "shy tuna," "the hyp-o-crit," and the "escalator." The band traditionally performs them live, but as the members get older they admit that it's getting harder and harder to get them right."We can't do all 16 anymore" Mr. Strickland confessed during a coffee break in the band's hotel suite."I danced in bad shoes so my knees are a little shot," Mr. Schneider said."We've entered the phase in our life," Mr. Strickland said sarcastically, "where we're talking about our knees." There was a moment of quiet group contemplation, followed, as usual, by peals of laughter.ISABEL LEONARDWeill Recital HallThe mezzo soprano Isabel Leonard made a noteworthy Metropolitan Opera debut last fall as Stéphano in "Roméo et Juliette," demonstrating a lively stage presence and a radiant lyric voice. On Friday she proved that she is also confident on the recital stage, making her New York debut at Weill Recital Hall, ably accompanied by the pianist Brian Zeger.A New York native with undergraduate and graduate degrees from Juilliard, Ms. Leonard offered an eclectic program including works by Hugo Wolf, Rachmaninoff and Schoenberg, and American songbook standards.Ms. Leonard began with songs by the Cuban composer Joaquín Nin, including a heartfelt rendition of "Alma, sintamos," a mother's lament for her child.Next came selections from Wolf's "Italienisches Liederbuch." Ms. Leonard vividly illuminated the contrasting moods, from the nastiness of "Do Be Quiet" to the beseeching tone of "You Young Men."She seemed fully warmed up and in her element in sensual, perfumed French songs by Reynaldo Hahn, which showed her silvery warm voice and elegant phrasing to great effect. She was also persuasive in Manuel de Falla's "Seven Spanish Popular Songs" and selections by Rachmaninoff and Schoenberg.Ms. Leonard seemed least comfortable in the songbook standards, which included music by Cole Porter, George Gershwin and Richard Rodgers.As encores she offered a soulful rendition of the zarzuela aria "De España vengo" and an impassioned, nuanced performance of "Que fais-tu, blanche tourterelle?" from "Roméo et Juliette." VIVIEN SCHWEITZERJOEL FANMetropolitan Museum of ArtA New York recital debut is a big deal, even for a musician whose performances here have made him a familiar presence. The pianist Joel Fan, 38, has long been admired in chamber music and orchestral settings, and also plays in Yo-Yo Ma's busy, eclectic Silk Road Ensemble. Unlikely as it may seem, the recital he presented at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Friday night was his first in the city.Mr. Fan came prepared with no fewer than four sonatas, two of them — Beethoven's No. 31 in A flat and Chopin's  No. 2 in B flat minor — cornerstones of the repertory. Those works provided ample evidence of Mr. Fan's probing intellect and vivid imagination, the Beethoven in particular sounding freshly conceived and full of character.Mr. Fan brought steely power and a feather-light touch to Prokofiev's bristling Sonata No. 3. He seemed to revel in the stormy hues and red-blooded Romantic gestures in Leon Kirchner's compact Sonata No. 3, "The Forbidden," which was written for Mr. Fan in 2006.Mr. Fan surrounded those works with attractive, colorful showpieces from his very popular 2006 CD, "World Keys," including music by the Turkish composer A. Adnan Saygun; Dia Succari, from Syria; and Qigang Chen, a Chinese student of Messiaen. He was expressive and eloquent in Villa-Lobos's Choro No. 5, "Alma Brasileira."The program ended with a flamboyant account of Liszt's Concert Paraphrase of Verdi's "Rigoletto." Mr. Fan was recalled for two encores: "Cristal," a slinky tango by Cesar Camargo Mariano, and William Bolcom's dreamy "... la belle rouquine." STEVE SMITH You never quite know what you're going to get at a Lang Lang performance. In recent years he has tempered the rollicking, explosive side of his pianism and brought a measure of weight, thought and maturity to his music making. But he has apparently reserved the right to backslide if the mood takes him, as it did in a New York Philharmonic appearance in June.At Carnegie Hall on Saturday evening Mr. Lang had it both ways, and made a point of yoking together extremes. Passages infused with sublime beauty sat beside sheer display, some virtuosic and brilliant, some veering headlong into vulgarity. Sober concentration gave way to balletic hand gestures (the most sweeping of these involving a follow-through that brought his right hand sailing over his left shoulder), dreamy head tilting and full-body illustrations of the accenting.A particularly telling example of this duality was Mr. Lang's single encore, Chopin's Étude in E (Op. 10, No. 3). He played its outer sections with a refined tone, letting the plaintive supple theme sing over a gauzy accompaniment. But in the short bravura middle section Mr. Lang pummeled the keyboard with all his might.Schumann's Fantasy in C (Op. 17) covered similar distances, with a real sense of grandeur and a broader palette bringing compelling substance to the meditative and fevered sides of this eccentric composer's vision. For pure visceral thrills Mr. Lang's full-throttle reading of the middle movement was hard to beat. It drew vigorous sustained applause from much of the house, with none of the shushing that usually suppresses spontaneous enthusiasm.Mr. Lang offered a surprise or two. His account of Mozart's Sonata in B flat (K. 333) was graceful and brisk, with transparent textures and moments of remarkable delicacy in the Andante cantabile. And a gentle impulse drove some of the Chinese traditional pieces he played, most notably the shimmering "Moonlight Reflecting on the Lake."But most of the program was devoted to Mr. Lang's extroverted side, with supercharged performances of Granados's "Requiebros," from "Goyescas," and Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsody No. 6 in D flat. Between them he offered another of the subtler highlights of his program, a rich-hued, emotionally astute interpretation of the "Liebestod" from Wagner's "Tristan und Isolde," in Liszt's finger-breaking arrangement.ARSENIO RODRíGUEZ "El Alma de Cuba" (Tumbao)This new six-disc boxed set by the Cuban bandleader and guitarist Arsenio Rodríguez, is a G.T.O.: a Great Thing, Objectively. First, it gets the stuff out there, collecting in one place nearly every scrap of music Rodríguez made for RCA Victor between 1940 to 1956, before he left Cuba for good (for New York and Los Angeles).  His music has not previously been so well documented, in a large-canvas, year-by-year sense, and RCA has been a poor custodian of it. Second, it treats Rodríguez with a care equal to his importance, with dozens of pictures, extensive  information on every recording session, a short biography in Spanish and English.Rodríguez (1911-1970) played the tres, a Cuban guitar with three pairs of like-tuned strings. He was blind, and, to simplify grandly, the Chuck Berry figure of Cuban dance music, establishing its lasting parameters. His band recorded romantic boleros as a matter of course, but in the early '40s  he was also the significant architect of son montuno.  He solidified  its instrumentation and arrangement into a recognizable form, which you will know instinctively if you've heard any of the New York salsa that drew from it 30 years later. It has two-bar calls-and-responses between voices and trumpets near the beginning, then a buildup into a collective improvisation, which Rodríguez called the diablo, with the bass player accenting the up-beats, working the negative space, giving the music kinetic mystery.Aside from all this, Rodríguez was a wizardly and instantly instructive guitarist. When he solos here, as in "Cero Guapos en Yateras," "El Cerro Tiene la Llave," "No Toque el Guao" and dozens of other tunes,  you respond.  If you are a guitar player, it will make you want to play. If you are a dancer, it will make you want to dance. He makes you begin to hear rhythm as he does; he improves you. (Available at descarga.com.) BEN RATLIFFTONY SCHERR"Twist in the Wind"(Smells Like)Tony Scherr has a few different profiles as a musician, each of them sharp-honed, peer-reviewed and generously melding  into the others. Among jazz fans he commands respect as a bassist in settings either twangy (Bill Frisell) or twitchy (Sex Mob). He's also a known associate of Norah Jones, having played guitar on all of her records. And he's a singer-songwriter of deep and palpable conviction, as he proves with his second album, "Twist in the Wind."Like Ms. Jones, Mr. Scherr expresses faith in the integrity of American songcraft. But he's after something messier and more raucous, sometimes skirting the edge of uneasiness. His voice has a rough, unfinished-plywood timbre, and he uses it cannily, phrasing in a way that feels both conversational and theatrical. On a slow-burn breakup song like "I Could Understand," when he assumes the role of a sucker-punched ex-boyfriend, his delivery conveys a spooky authority.His band — which at its core consists of the Hammond B-3 organist Chris Brown, the drummer Kenny Wollesen and the bassist Peter Scherr, his older brother — strikes a chord of hazy confidence. It draws heavily from the rustic side of 1970s rock and mainstream country: Willie Nelson, Neil Young, the Band. Somehow, through it all, the vibe of the group doesn't fall prey to nostalgia.Mr. Scherr's playing has a lot to do with that. He's a terrific guitarist, especially adept with a slide: his solos strike that elusive balance between erudition and rawness, and he doesn't seem susceptible to displays of vacuous technique. The album doesn't capture the full spectrum of his gift as an improviser — for that there are live shows, like the one he'll play on March 25 at Joe's Pub — but it certainly casts him in a favorable light.And so does most of his material, which tends to confront big ideas through small gestures. Probably the best song on the album is "Between," an open-ended rumination. Its between-ness could refer to a dream state or to some kind of purgatory. Either way it fits this album, and succeeds mightily.NATE CHINENTHE KILLS"Midnight Boom"  (Domino)On "Midnight Boom" the Kills make candy-apple razor-blade rock: naïve childlike singsong with dark, nasty posturing.Allison Mosshart and Jamie Hince, this London  band's only two members, are shining up an old and delicate and totally intellectualized concept, the glamour of sickness. ("I'm bored of cheap and cheerful/I want expensive sadness,"  Ms. Mosshart sings. "I'm getting down with the awkward moments/I'm getting down with the sour kiss," Mr. Hince sings.) And they're using minimalism and repetition, some of the greatest tools in the world.But these aren't very good songs, and the band's agenda — sounding bored and chic, simultaneous distancing and beckoning, creating revulsion and desire — seems to tilt, in the end, more toward fashion than music. Moving through one trashy-sexy texture after another, the album is much more carefully made than the band's previous two; it's minutely worked on, fussed over, thoroughly staged and blocked and lighted. It's not natural. It doesn't just tumble out.The Kills love cheap instruments and base sentiments. But their music is no longer garage rock: now it's more like the early minimalist electronic pop of the Normal. It's got lean and digitally treated guitar riffs or sometimes the forlorn sound of an out-of-tune nylon-string; funky rhythm ideas (LCD Soundsystem fans will respond to the grooves), mundane sound effects like telephone dial tones and smokers' coughs. This album may have been comparatively inexpensive to make. But the expenditure of attitude must have been tremendous. BEN RATLIFF 
