"We got a full house up in this — uh — piece," Musiq Soulchild said, chuckling, on Saturday night at the Nokia Theater. "We got to be politically correct. Neo-soul singers ain't supposed to cuss." When he first emerged, seven years ago, it seemed he might never be rid of that much-derided term "neo-soul." It was supposed to describe a group of 1970s-influenced singers who made music that appealed to alt-rap fans, NPR listeners and others who had written off contemporary R&B. And with the release of his first album, "Aijuswanaseing," Musiq Soulchild became one of its biggest stars.When his next two albums, "Juslisen" and "Soulstar," didn't make the same impact, it seemed possible that he would fade away. But "Luvanmusiq" (Atlantic), released this year, was a pleasant surprise: a return to form that has helped him outlive the neo-soul craze. The first two singles — "B.U.D.D.Y.," a cheerful hip-hop throwback, and "Teachme," a sublime slow jam — both went to No. 2 on Billboard's Hot R&B/Hip-Hop chart. (None of his previous albums spawned two songs that charted so high.)He has survived by redoubling his commitment to the adult-oriented (no, that's not a euphemism) R&B that made him a star. He aims for the demographic known as "grown and sexy"  (now that's a euphemism), and on Saturday night the Nokia Theater was full of swaying couples and sitting couples. At this concert the seats in the back of the room were prime real estate.He sang with a noticeable rasp, and at one point he said, "Oh my God, I'm losing my voice." (He said it pretty cheerfully, considering his occupation.) Then he tore into "Love," from his first album, driving his point home with wild, squeaky ad-libs that might have been intended (and, regardless, were probably interpreted) as a tribute to Prince.Wild ad-libbing has always been a Musiq Soulchild signature, though it isn't always a strength: His digressive singing style, coupled with ambitious, jazz-inflected chord changes, sometimes makes it hard for listeners to find the melody. But over the years his vocal runs have become more precise and slightly more judicious.His lyrics often sound  like run-on sentences, and that casual, conversational approach helps pull his songs down to earth. In "Ms.Philadelphia," angling for "a little hometown love," he describes a seemingly dull conversation as if it were an irresistible come-on: "She says after law school she wants a career before kids/We spoke forever on topics like religion and politics."Like many stars who have seen their fortunes rise and fall and rise again, Musiq Soulchild seems to appreciate his fan base more than ever. "All the real lovers in the house, let me hear you make some noise," he said. He got ready to sing "Dontchange," an older song, but it turned out he didn't have to. He seemed surprised to hear that the crowd was willing — and able — to sing the first verse for him.There is a cave in the heart of Manhattan, a mysterious underground lair. It's tucked away on 42nd Street, and the only clue to its existence is a glowing marquee. And a well-lighted gift shop. And a handful of security guards out front. Anyway, this place isn't for the faint of heart — especially not, you imagine, on Sundays, during the weekly gospel brunch.They call it B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, and on Thursday night this unsecret hideout was invaded by trolls. Or, at any rate, by trollism. The occasion was a concert by Finntroll, a folk-metal band from Finland that is obsessed with all things trollish. And though the Fintroll faithful didn't quite pack the place, there was a pretty big mob, ready to cheer and chant along.From Gwar to Lordi, there has rarely been a shortage of metal-influenced bands willing to dress up in ridiculous outfits and bellow ridiculous songs. Happily, Finntroll is not one of those bands. On Thursday night, the guys in the band were dressed pretty normally, except for their long black kilts. An innocent bystander might have had no idea that there was anything even faintly trollish about the concert, since the lyrics weren't in English.They weren't in Finnish, either. The band's original singer, Katla, sang in Swedish; the band's new singer, a long-haired growler known as Vreth, has continued the tradition, with help from Katla, who is now the band's lyricist.The band's new album, released earlier this year, is called "Ur Jordens Djup" (Century Media/Spinefarm), which translates as "From the Depths of the Earth." And it's excellent: heavier and meaner-sounding than its rather cheerful predecessor, "Nattfodd." Vreth's flayed-throat vocals emphasize the band's links to black metal. His fury only makes the blasts of good cheer — the boinging of a mouth harp or the wheezing of a synthesized accordion — seem that much weirder.For Finntroll, as for many Scandinavian metal bands, Norse mythology is no joke. Evocations of old pagan societies fit well with the genre's longstanding anti-Christian rhetoric. ("Ur Jordens Djup" ends with a short singalong about an irate troll who burns down a church.) Finntroll's keyboardist, known as Trollhorn, also plays in a darker, weirder band called Moonsorrow. (Moonsorrow's most recent CD is "V: Havitetty," an engrossing hourlong album that consists of two epic tracks.) Beneath seemingly silly lyrics about "trollfolk," you can hear an expression of ethnic pride; plenty of other European metal bands (some of them great) express something similar in much less playful terms.You might almost say that with Finntroll, the trollishness is a diversion. The members' real innovation is their embrace of a Finnish polkalike genre called humppa, which sounds — well, like it sounds, more or less. It's a rhythm that easily transcends language barriers, and on Thursday night whenever a galloping riff gave way to that exuberant rhythm — hump-pa, hump-pa, hump-pa — there was a roar from the crowd. This is music that goes well with a tankard of Bud Light. (Available for $7, tankard not included.)There was something odd about seeing this band play for a relatively small, well-behaved audience. (The endlessly entertaining video for "Trollhammaren," much viewed on YouTube, shows the band members carousing and feasting in their native environment.) But Vreth did his best to keep the energy high, asking, "Are you ready to mosh-pit?" In response, a pair of bouncers assumed positions on the dance floor, ready to enforce the club's longstanding rule against turning nouns into verbs.There was a confused murmur when Vreth asked, "Do you guys like priest?" (Did he mean Judas?) But he clarified when he answered his own question, trollishly: "You know what we say about priests? Let's eat them!" And when he said, "We're gonna play a song about the great serpent witch," true fans knew it was time for a ferocious run through "Ormhaxan," from the new album.Even when the energy flagged — the set was shapeless and rather long, as if the band members had simply decided to play everything they knew — Vreth stayed positive. "Do a mosh pit!" he barked. "I heard you Americans are famous for that one. I wanna see some dancing around!"And near the back of the room, two metalheads locked elbows and merrily complied.NEW ORLEANS — One Saturday night in May, Fats Domino took the stage before a full house at Tipitina's, the club that has become, like him, a New Orleans institution. His half-hour set made headlines for a few reasons.It was Mr. Domino's first show since Hurricane Katrina hit in 2005. It was a benefit for the Tipitina's Foundation, a nonprofit organization devoted to restoring the city's musical culture and helping its musicians. Besides that, it was Fats Domino, and these days that's more than reason enough.Mr. Domino, 79, made many of the rhythm-and-blues hits that laid the groundwork for rock 'n' roll. He's also something of a recluse, and a perfectionist known to cancel appearances without warning or cause. Yet he is still a presence in the city he has always called home."For lack of a better way of putting it," Irma Thomas, known as the Soul Queen of New Orleans, said recently, "he's a living, walking legend among us in New Orleans. Between him and Louis Armstrong, they were the first big names to put us on the musical map."On Sept. 25, Vanguard Records will release "Goin' Home: A Tribute to Fats Domino," making use of some other big names, including B. B. King, Paul McCartney, Robert Plant, Willie Nelson, Neil Young and Norah Jones. They appear alongside New Orleans heroes like Dr. John and Allen Toussaint.The foundation will dedicate a portion of the proceeds to the renovation of Mr. Domino's publishing office, adjacent to his spacious house in the Lower Ninth Ward, which was severely damaged by the flooding after Katrina. He had to be rescued by helicopter from his home; he lost several pianos and most of his possessions, and looters stole most of his gold records from the 1950s.Of course, even without the flood it would not have been hard to rally support for Mr. Domino. "He's been around all this time, and I've never read or heard anything bad about him," Mr. King said recently. "And as far as I'm concerned, he's just a great musician, and a lovable person.""Goin' Home" arrives roughly one year after "Alive and Kickin'," Mr. Domino's first album in more than a decade, which was also released as a benefit for the Tipitina's Foundation. "He really wanted to put it out through our organization," said Bill Taylor, the foundation's executive director. "He was aware of what we were doing, and he reached out to us."Over a bowl of  gumbo at Cochon, a Cajun restaurant in the warehouse district, Mr. Taylor described the process behind "Goin' Home," for which he receives credit as executive producer. "The first hurdle was that I had no idea what I was doing," he said. "I had never done anything like this."But Mr. Taylor set his sights high from the start: his first request was to Yoko Ono, to use a version of "Ain't That a Shame" that John Lennon recorded in 1973. "Within like a week, she gave us permission," he said. "Then Elton John signed on next. And at that point there was enough star power behind it that the dominoes started falling pretty quick." (His domino metaphor did not seem intended as a pun.)With more than 30 tracks, recorded not just in New Orleans but in places like Los Angeles, Las Vegas and Kingston, Jamaica, the album presented some fearsome logistics. Further complicating matters was Mr. Taylor's decision to feature New Orleans musicians. In the spirit of the tribute concerts that followed Katrina, "Goin' Home" includes novel pairings like Joss Stone and Buddy Guy with the Dirty Dozen Brass Band; Mr. King with Ivan Neville's Dumpstaphunk; and Lenny Kravitz with the Rebirth Brass Band.Mr. Taylor often paired songs with artists. Elton John is a natural on "Blueberry Hill," as are Tom Petty on "I'm Walkin' " and Randy Newman on "Blue Monday." Los Lobos offer a solid update of "The Fat Man," one of the earliest rock 'n' roll records. Mr. McCartney does his best Fats impression on "I Want to Walk You Home," backed by Mr. Toussaint on piano.More than a few of the album's tracks came together serendipitously. Mr. Plant had agreed to record a track with the Cajun group Lil' Band o' Gold, but when he arrived in New Orleans the acclaimed Soweto Gospel Choir was headlining at Tipitina's. A meeting was arranged, and Mr. Plant also recorded "Valley of Tears" with the choir, in a hushed style that calls Paul Simon's "Graceland" to mind."So you have the Led Zeppelin guy with a South African gospel choir doing a Fats Domino song," Mr. Taylor said. "It's an example of what happens here musically every day."On Sept. 29, some of the album's local luminaries, including Ms. Thomas, Dumpstaphunk and Big Chief Monk Boudreaux of the Mardi Gras Indians, will play at a release party at Tipitina's. Like the album, the show will celebrate not just Mr. Domino's legacy but also the remarkable songwriting partnership he enjoyed with the trumpeter Dave Bartholomew.Mr. Domino, who now lives in Harvey, La.,  in a gated community on the west bank of the Mississippi River, rarely gives interviews, though he has said he was honored by "Goin' Home."But in one of the chance coincidences that seem to happen often in New Orleans, a reporter on his way to the airport in a taxicab lucked into what passes for an interview with Mr. Domino.The driver, Walter Miles, turned out to be Mr. Domino's chauffeur. "I drive him all over," he said. "We talk to each other two or three times a day."With that, Mr. Miles dialed a number on his cellphone and passed the phone to the back seat. There was Mr. Domino, with his unmistakable New Orleans drawl. What followed was less an interview than genial small talk."Where you from?" he asked, getting right to the heart of the matter."Other things being equal, a firstborn son may be the worst choice to run your family business," Dan Rottenberg writes in Family Business.McKinsey researchers working with the London School of Economics studied 700 manufacturing companies in France, Germany, Britain and the United States last year and ranked them based on various performance measures like  sales growth and market valuation.The survey found  no difference between a family-run company and the typical one.But, the researchers said, "family companies run by an outside professional C.E.O. performed on average 12 percent better than the average family business." And, they said, "companies run by the eldest son underperformed the average by 10 percent."One possible explanation  offered by the McKinsey consultants is  that if the oldest son  knows his  birth order guarantees that he will be  put  in charge of the family business at some point, he  may not prepare as hard as someone else who has to compete for the job.ARE YOU WORTHY? Let's say  a family member did give  you the top job, is there a way  to know whether you  are ready?Yes, argues Ivan Lansberg, a senior partner at Lansberg, Gersick & Associates, a  research and consulting firm based in New Haven that specializes in family business.In this month's issue of The Harvard Business Review, he writes about whether the new chief executive has taken account of the various constituencies — family members, directors, senior executives, investors, trade unions —  who may not be convinced that the executive has earned the right to hold the top spot. In a sidebar to the main article, he offers a multipart self-diagnostic test the scions can take to determine if they are ready.These are the five questions potential successors should ask themselves, he says (with yes, being the best answer to each):¶Is there a good fit between what I studied and the leadership role?¶Have I worked outside the family business and shown that I can succeed?¶Have I taken on jobs and projects whose results can be objectively measured?¶Am I aware of the deficiencies in my training and what I should do about them?¶Do my behavior and demeanor serve to defuse concerns about nepotism?PARTNERING Finding good people, especially good senior people, is difficult. And wherever there is a problem, someone is bound to start a business to try to solve it. That's where a company called PartnerUp.com comes in.Steve Nielsen said he began the company after he realized that he could have used its services in a previous venture, in 2003. "I just couldn't find the right engineer to partner with" for the company, he says. Months later, at a University of Minnesota event, he says he ran into an engineer who would have been perfect, if only he had had a way to meet him.So, he created a business that  allows people to post opportunities and network and allow companies to search for the people they need. Most of the opportunities advertised are companies looking for a "co-founder, executive, board member, or positions where people will get involved in the company as more than just an employee."OVER THERE  If you are thinking of starting a company in a developing country, the Web site  www.smetoolkit.org can prove helpful.The  site is a part of the small and medium enterprise  department of the World Bank and is aimed at  combining "the market perspective of the International Finance Corporation with the policy expertise of the World Bank to promote local small business growth in developing nations."The articles on accounting and finance, human resources and marketing are equally applicable for  firms in the United States.LAST CALL If you find it hard to get started at the beginning of the workweek, Cristina Tudino, writing in Self magazine, has three suggestions:¶Alter your routine. Going through the motions makes you sluggish, so try something new. "Listen to classical music instead of jazz on your commute. You may think faster on your feet."¶Work hard first. Instead of easing into the day, "pick a project that requires analytical thinking but that will take no more than an hour." It will set a productive tone for the day.¶Have fun — later. By definition, Mondays can be difficult. "Lower your stress level by treating yourself to one small luxury — such as meeting a friend at a favorite lunch spot. It should help you relax, focus and get down to business afterwards."Beach books (the kind set there, not those designed to be read there) often falter for want of drama. This shouldn't be too surprising: vacation places at the shore are often chosen for their lack of stimulation. Writers are merely being faithful to the milieu when they generate characters drunk on sunshine in plots that move to the lulling rhythms of days and nights by the ocean.Dennis McFarland is too high-minded a novelist to rely on a grisly murder, drowning, sex scandal, shark attack, weather emergency or cancer diagnosis to juice up his story of three siblings gathered at the family estate on the Gulf Coast. The best he can do here in the way of a gimmicky threat is a stinging jellyfish. "Howard's End" seems to be a landlocked model for "Letter From Point Clear," with the waterfront house and grounds at this Alabama retreat functioning as a character in its own right and the question "To whom does this idyllic spot rightfully belong?" left unanswered until the end.The Owens were raised to be the sort of WASPs who talk about property, not money, although they have plenty of it — too much, we are led to think. Their recently deceased, long-widowed father, Roy, was "drunken, narcissistic and not especially interested in his children." The story begins when Roy's son and older daughter — Morris, an English professor, and Ellen, a minor poet — make the southward trip home from Cape Cod after receiving a letter from their troubled sister, Bonnie, who has been living at Point Clear, overseeing their father's last days after failing to make it as an actress in New York. Ellen and Morris suspect she has added to her already sterling résumé of disastrous choices by impulsively marrying a handsome young evangelical minister, aptly named Pastor, who may be after the family fortune. (To consecrate their union, she gives him a new Jeep; his gift to her is a Bible.)Soon enough, the outspokenly gay Morris will be pitted against the fundamentally anti-gay Southern preacher. As leader of the prayer team at the Church of the Blessed Hunger, Pastor believes he cannot allow his brother-in-law to continue a life of sin, even though his own father tells him to keep his mouth shut. The pregnant Bonnie is caught between her old and new families.I kept hoping McFarland would play this as a Shavian comedy, exposing hardened and faulty assumptions on the parts of all concerned. Instead, he panders to his liberal readers, who never have to wonder which side deserves to triumph. The scenes for these arguments are as predictable — a dinner party with guests is the occasion for a major blowup — as the positions expressed. Even the most heated conversations, tuned to the plain timbres of actual speech but infected with the language of therapy, end up sounding painfully flat. "Morris didn't ask for your prayers," Bonnie tells Pastor. "He didn't ask for them and they're based on a false premise. You're imposing your particular view on him and praying about something that's really none of your business."Elsewhere, passages of exposition or internal monologuing can be so clotted they read like Gertrude Stein or Ivy Compton-Burnett without the craziness or the bite: "At first, Morris's proposal to bring Willie down for the weekend had thrown her. How could she say no to seeing Willie when she missed him so? How could she have Willie down and bar Dan, when she knew Dan missed him just as much? Even when Morris and Richard were planning to come without Willie, she'd worried that it would look too much like a family gathering that pointedly excluded Dan."Novels about the tensions of family relationships tend to unfold at a slow tempo, but when this is compounded by a beach setting during a Southern summer the effect can be stifling. Not enough is at stake between the Owen siblings for the payoff to have startling consequences. What's more, McFarland too often opts for mood over action. Emotional cadences are signaled by walks on the sand, the watching of sunsets, lightning storms at night, the death of a beloved old dog and many bouts of weeping.In early novels like "The Music Room" and "School for the Blind" (where the ancestral home was in Florida), McFarland was able to draw realistic figures with odd problems. His flowing sentences took their time reaching a conclusion but still held their shape and took care of business along the way. Not here, where the Southern heat seems to have wilted the muscle tone of his prose and his characters. Let's hope this novel is an anomaly.DJ Killa EThe youthful Chicago genre known as juke music is inching closer to the mainstream. The duo Dude 'n Nem has a rising hit with "Watch My Feet" (TVT), and the actress and singer Keke Palmer (from "Akeelah and the Bee") has released a juked-out R&B single called "Footworkin' " (Atlantic). But if you really want a feel for the genre, log on to the addictive networking site imeem.com and feast upon the beats and remixes of DJ Killa E, who knows his way around the genre's essentials: rippling electronic kick drums and toms, disorienting sped-up vocals and  —  above all  — ludicrously fast tempos. And if you think this stuff is too fast for flashy dance moves, just check out the flabbergasting videos.LeAnn RimesHer Web site, leannrimesworld.com, is counting down the days until Oct. 9, when she is scheduled to release her new album, "Family" (Curb). But if some fans don't quite know what to expect, it's not their fault. Ms. Rimes, who has been a country star since she was 14, spent this summer puzzling longtime fans with a pair of videos. There was "Ready for a Miracle," her frenetic (and quite tiresome) version of a gospel song from the soundtrack of "Evan Almighty." And then there was "Nothin' Better to Do," the glorious first single from "Family": She wraps her big voice around a rousing story-song, chronicling a day in the life of a young woman out to raise some hell. And the video adds another twist: It's set in a 1930s-era women's prison, and Ms. Rimes's fellow inmates are also her backup dancers. Whatever this is, let's have some more of it.Young BleedThis mumbly rapper from Baton Rouge, La., made his debut a decade ago, as a member of Master P's No Limit crew. After a brief moment in the hip-hop spotlight (remember "How You Do Dat"?), Young Bleed went back underground, where has remained; this hip-hop veteran endures as a regional star, beloved for the way his lackadaisical drawl camouflages neatly packed syllables. His new album is "Once Upon a Time in Amedica" (Da'Tention Home/West Coast Mafia), a mixed bag that works best when the music echoes Young Bleed's laid-back, down-home rhymes. "Tumble'n' Down" is a breezy statement of purpose, and "Top Back" is a slow-rolling collaboration with 8 Ball, from Memphis. But for newcomers the real revelation will be "Bac' Road Mississippi," which has a languid guitar line that puts him in a nostalgic mood: "Young son, the baby of the blues, man/Sittin' on the porch with my folks, in new shoes, man." This album isn't what people usually mean when they talk about indie rap. But it should be.Manchester Orchestra"Sweet Jesus, I swear that I love you." So murmurs Andy Hull, lead singer of this emerging band from Atlanta, and it's hard to tell whether he's praying or swearing. The song is "Now That You're Home," and it comes from the band's breakthrough album, "I'm Like a Virgin Losing a Child," which was released last year on the band's own label, Favorite Gentlemen, and rereleased this summer with help from the band's new label, Columbia. In that sense it's one of this year's best emo albums (though the members probably hate the term; who doesn't?), and in it you can hear the influence of R.E.M. and a generation of indie rockers. But there's something pleasantly inscrutable about Mr. Hull, whether he's delivering a spiteful rant ("Alice and Interiors") or serenading someone. Many of these songs revolve around questions of faith, which only makes them sound more audacious. This is a fundamentally immodest album: music to swoon to.'Year of the Pig'That's the name of a monstrous new 18-minute song by a neo-hardcore band from Toronto. And the name of the band? Well, suffice it to say that if newspaper coverage were a priority, the members might have called themselves Messed Up instead.  You can find "Year of the Pig" on iTunes and elsewhere. The 1980s Portland, Ore., band Poison Idea is an obvious influence, although Poison Idea wasn't known for composing multipart epics about sexism and serial killing and the meat industry. In any case, this is an unreasonably stubborn song, building momentum slowly as the guest singer Jennifer Castle murmurs the lyrics ("Pigs at the trough show no fear") and Pink Eye, the band's lead singer, roars them ("Pigs at the trough getting fat!"). The band trudges slowly along for six minutes, then builds momentum, then lurches forward, riding a relatively sleek groove as Pink Eye declaims the words ("Ashamed of the pig in our head/Ashamed, so we kill 'em instead") as the band stretches up and surges forward and, finally, collapses in a heap. This is the second installment in a series inspired by the Chinese zodiac; with any luck, "Year of the Rat" is up next.HEADS were thrashing and hair was flying on and off the stage while ChthoniC, a metal band from Taiwan, performed last week at the B. B. King Blues Club & Grill in Times Square. But when Freddy Lim, the lead vocalist, introduced his next song with a colorful dedication to the United Nations, there seemed to be a bit of confusion."This song is 'UNlimited Taiwan,' " Mr. Lim said. Few people seemed to appreciate the wordplay off of "U.N.," but seconds later drumbeats shook the audience, and the concert resumed its full-throated roar. For several weeks, the band has been on a tour of the United States as part of Ozzfest, a festival heavy on ear-piercing heavy metal.But ChthoniC (pronounced THON-ik) is also timing its New York concerts to coincide with the opening today of the 62nd session of the United Nations General Assembly. The band  wants  first to entertain, but it also hopes to educate, and the tour is being promoted, in part, by the Government Information Office of the Republic of China (Taiwan) to raise awareness about Taiwan's quest for recognition before the world. Taiwan, over which China claims sovereignty, has been rejected for membership in the United Nations since 1971, and this year the country will make another bid."We are using a softer power," said Jhy Wey Shieh, the minister of the  information office, of his support of ChthoniC. "We are trying to tell the people what we are, who we are. Politics are not taboo for them; they are free to tell people about Taiwan."Mr. Lim, 30, the only original member of the band, is happy to help his country, but admits that after three months of touring, politics can interfere with his craft. "The priority for us is to fight in our career," Mr. Lim said. He started the band 11 years ago and writes many songs that refer to ancient Taiwanese mythology. The makeup the members wear on stage is derived from ancient Taiwanese art forms and fables.Mr. Lim is, however, sympathetic to Taiwanese-Americans and his country's future. He wrote "UNlimited Taiwan," and used that as the name of the band's tour in an attempt to raise awareness about Taiwan's United Nations campaign. "Our hearts are pounding with a heavy beat," says one verse of the song. "The rights of millions lay at your feet. A society marching needs true justice. A world like this needs true union."Mr. Lim says he finds it easy to express himself through song because it is a medium that feels natural to him. "We will not make a speech," he said. "Come on, it's a metal concert, you can't make a speech."Where to begin with "The Other Here"?With its ridiculously seductive Okinawan pop music and gesture-rich movement language? With the Narrator/M.C. (Jess Barbagallo), who surely spent his formative years being stuffed, deservedly, into school lockers? Or perhaps with the designer Peter Flaherty's haunting video projections of a large white carp swimming slowly through dark waters?There is no real jumping-off point for this hourlong work by the Big Dance Theater, which opened Wednesday at the Dance Theater Workshop. It wears its considerable heart on its considerably irritating sleeve. The directors Paul Lazar and Annie-B Parson toss in absurdly dissimilar sensibilities that undermine as much as they augment each other. But they succeed admirably in their goal of seeming to add up without actually adding up. Or maybe that should read the other way around.Now about that carp: It was given to Mehdi (the always worthwhile Mr. Lazar) by a departed friend, Aoki Nampachi (Chris Giarmo). It is a burden, as gifts often are, a troublesome reminder of mortality and loyalty. Mehdi is a life insurance salesman, a big shot apparently, but he can't cut his losses on the fish. And he can't cut the emotionalism that keeps creeping into his shtick, much to the irritation of his young associate, the androgynous Ms. Barbagallo, as the two spout off about the tricks of the trade at an industry conference. Mehdi is petty and querulous, shaming his long-time manservant (Molly Hickok), whom he obviously loves, sinking into nostalgic remembrances of Aoki and worrying about that fish.Some of this material comes from two stories by Masuji Ibuse. The movement comes from traditional Okinawan dance. The insurance stuff comes from whatever level of hell Dante assigned such things to. These various strands, which don't so much tie together as float around each other, are aided by the many movable elements of Takeshi Kata's impressive, homespun set. Sometimes the effect of all this willfully obtuse cultural interplay, as Ms. Parson writes in the program notes, is "wonderfully clumsy." Sometimes it's just all too much, and not enough.At one point, Mehdi calls for music, and the marvelous response is an Okinawan rendition of "No Woman No Cry." Everyone dances till the M.C. comes out and yells for Jane (the sound designer Jane Shaw ) to turn it off. Mehdi counter-hollers and Jane wavers. Her indecision is understandable; both individuals, really, are right.A bold Brazilian melodrama that moves to the rhythm of the streets, "Antonia" traces a year in the lives of four young women who form a rap group and fend off tragedy.Tired of singing backup to male rap stars, Preta (Negra Li), Lena (Cindy), Barbarah (Leilah Moreno) and Mayah (Quelynah) — all successful musicians in real life — rehearse their own music and acquire an agent. But when the group falls prey to brutal violence, internal jealousies and an unplanned pregnancy, the girls learn that escape from poverty will require more than fierce rhymes.The third feature in a trilogy by Tata Amaral, "Antonia" pulses with color and movement. Filmed in the São Paulo suburb of Vila Brasilândia, the movie has an earthy realism underscored by naturalistic performances and a restless camera. Maximizing her nonprofessional cast of Brazilian hip-hop performers, the director fills the soundtrack with a vibrant blend of R&B, soul and rap. When the group sings an a cappella version of "Killing Me Softly," you may forget to breathe.Driven by a screenplay (by Ms. Amaral and Roberto Moreira) that evolved during rehearsals, "Antonia" explores cultural and sexual oppression with sensitivity and verve. The story may lack complexity, but it is loaded with irrepressible energy and a deep appreciation of female friendship. And that's always something to sing about."Antonia" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has strongly worded rhymes, posturing chauvinists and a violent hate crime.ANTONIAOpens today in Manhattan, Newark and Los Angeles. Directed by Tata Amaral; written (in Portuguese, with English subtitles) by Roberto Moreira and Ms. Amaral; director of photography, Jacob Sarmento Solitrenick; edited by Idê Lacreta; music by Beto Villares and Parteum; production designer, Rafael Ronconi; produced by Geórgia Costa Araújo and Ms. Amaral; released by Anywhere Road. Running time: 90 minutes.WITH: Negra Li (Preta), Cindy (Lena), Leilah Moreno (Barbarah), Quelynah (Mayah) and Marcus Vinicius Kamau (Dante).
