In "Bird Alone," one of the terse and symbolically charged songs Abbey Lincoln chose to revisit on her recent album "Abbey Sings Abbey" (Verve), there are no specific references to Charlie Parker. But any jazz fan would recognize this alto saxophonist and bebop progenitor, whose sobriquet was Bird (or Yardbird), in Ms. Lincoln's lyrics. The airborne creature of the title is untouchable and inscrutable, "Sending mournful soulful sounds/Soaring over troubled grounds." After gliding high and swinging low, it vanishes, leaving only a song.That image provides an apt tribute to Parker, whose mercurial genius galvanized jazz in the 1940s and '50s, and whose influence endures more than half a century after his death. An equally fitting homage is offered by the 15th annual Charlie Parker Jazz Festival, which takes place this weekend at Marcus Garvey Park in Harlem and Tompkins Square Park in the East Village, places that bear some relevance to the life Parker led in New York.Ms. Lincoln, who turned 77 this month, is scheduled to make a rare appearance — two in fact, one at each location — as is the veteran drummer Chico Hamilton, 85, who will perform a new composition for sextet inspired by Parker and commissioned by the festival.And each of the concerts will surely entail a memorial to Max Roach, the pioneering drummer and close Parker associate who died last week at 83. Mr. Roach set an inventive percussive precedent that Mr. Hamilton adopted and personalized. Mr. Roach's connection to Ms. Lincoln was more direct: In 1960 they worked together on his landmark album "We Insist! Freedom Now Suite," and in 1962 they were married. (They divorced in 1970.)On a fundamental level, though, the festival pays homage to Parker and his footprint in the city. In many ways he was the quintessential New York hero: a maverick and bon vivant, a subject of notoriety and myth. He loved the city, and he toasted it outright with a tune called "Scrapple From the Apple" that was recorded in a New York studio 60 years ago this fall and almost immediately became popular with musicians. (Along with a catchy melody, it had a familiar harmonic progression, with elements of Fats Waller's "Honeysuckle Rose" and George Gershwin's "I Got Rhythm.")"Charlie Parker became a New Yorker," said the jazz historian Phil Schaap, whose Parker-fixated weekday radio program, "Bird Flight," has been heard in its current form on WKCR (89.9 FM) since 1981. "That was important to him, and he felt great about it, and he enjoyed New York nightlife as well as he dominated it for a while."Like so many celebrated New Yorkers Parker came from somewhere else. He was born in Kansas City, Kan., on Aug. 29, 1920, and began his musical career across the state line in Kansas City, Mo., during the waning days of its biggest nightlife boom. The depth of that experience will be a principal subject of "Kansas City Lightning: The Life and Times of the Young Charlie Parker," a long-gestating biography by the critic Stanley Crouch due out from Pantheon next year.Parker made his first foray to New York in 1939, on the heels of Buster Smith, his fellow saxophonist and Kansas City mentor. While crashing at Mr. Smith's apartment, he hit jam sessions at Harlem spots like Clark Monroe's Uptown House on West 134th Street."The only place he could really meet musicians who were going to help him realize his goals would have been New York, and specifically Harlem at that time," the saxophonist and historian Loren Schoenberg said recently by phone from the National Jazz Museum in Harlem, where he is executive director. The museum's August programming has been pointedly Parker-centric; next Tuesday the final lecture of the month takes place at the Harlem School of the Arts.Lore  has it that Parker's initial Harlem sojourn included toiling as a dishwasher at Jimmy's Chicken Shack, where the fearsome pianist Art Tatum held court. At another uptown spot, Dan Wall's Chili House, Parker had what he later described as an epiphany, during one of many sessions with a guitarist named Biddy Fleet.In an interview a decade later with Down Beat magazine, Parker recalled that he had tired of the stereotypical chord voicings then in use. "I kept thinking there's bound to be something else," he said. "I could hear it sometimes, but I couldn't play it." One night in 1939, improvising over the Ray Noble tune "Cherokee," he brought his idea to life. "And bop was born," Down Beat added, putting the kicker on a story so irresistible that Thomas Pynchon slipped it into his epic novel "Gravity's Rainbow."But bebop was no more traceable to a solitary bolt of inspiration than Parker's complex style was. And bebop's infancy had to wait a while as Parker returned to Kansas City, where he resumed ties with the pianist Jay McShann. For the next couple of years he worked in the Jay McShann Orchestra, playing "Cherokee" as a solo feature.Among the earliest known recordings of Parker is a broadcast of the McShann band's debut at the Savoy Ballroom in Harlem on Feb. 13, 1942. The engagement, effectively Parker's first big splash in New York City, attracted the notice of many local musicians, including a few, like the trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie, who were invited to sit in.Later that year, after erratic behavior earned him an unceremonious dismissal, Parker set himself up in New York, eventually joining Gillespie in the ranks of a band led by the pianist Earl Hines. Because of a recording ban imposed by the musicians' union at the time, there is little documentation of this group. Nor is there much recorded evidence of Parker and Gillespie's occasional forays to Minton's Playhouse, the so-called laboratory of bebop. Or of Parker's work at Monroe's, where he enlisted a whip-smart Max Roach, still in his teens.The innovations of this period happened in spite of Parker's rapacious vices, including a heroin addiction that began in Kansas City. His peers in the Hines and McShann bands would later recall his penchant for nodding off onstage. He spent the first few months of 1944 back in Kansas City, missing bebop's first incursion onto swing-centered 52nd Street, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues: a Gillespie-spearheaded engagement at the Onyx Club.But when Gillespie headlined another serious run on 52nd Street — at the Three Deuces, beginning in March 1945 — Parker joined him. By then most insiders knew about his characteristic unreliability. When the Gillespie-Parker quintet appeared at Town Hall that June, the radio host Symphony Sid Torin began his broadcast with what may have been a reflexive disclaimer: "I don't know whether Charlie has come in yet."The fearless brilliance of the music Parker was making — at the Town Hall concert, a recording of which was issued two years ago,  and contemporaneous studio sessions, especially the one that yielded "Koko," his masterpiece elaboration on "Cherokee" — may explain why so many musicians copied his excesses, and so many loved ones put up with his manipulative abuses.Probably no one endured more than the two women who were pulled into his orbit. Doris Sydnor, who had an apartment on Manhattan Avenue near 117th Street, became Parker's third wife. Chan Richardson, who was living in an apartment with her mother on 52nd Street, came to be considered his wife even though they never married.  Both women happened to be working as nightclub checkroom attendants in 1945. A decade later both grieved as widows, competing for the claim.A harbinger of Parker's death came in 1946, during a visit to California: He was arrested and committed to a state hospital. After six grueling months he gratefully returned to New York, moving with Doris into the Dewey Square Hotel in Harlem. He had kicked heroin, but only momentarily, and he had started drinking heavily."At this time, 1947, bop was going like mad all over America," Jack Kerouac later wrote in "On the Road," invoking Parker. But the madness was most acute in Kerouac's New York City, where fanatical followers began cataloging Parker's solos and a downtown bohemian subculture claimed him as its existential hero."Charlie Parker was really the only person who could unite in his experience the downtown avant-garde scene, with painters and self-conscious artists, and the Harlem jazz scene, which has always been more in harmony with the functional roots of the music," Mr. Schoenberg of the Jazz Museum said. That partly explains the duality of the Charlie Parker Jazz Festival, which attracts a different audience for each of its free afternoon concerts.It also jibes with the recollection of the great drummer Roy Haynes, 82, who in a phone conversation last week described not only working uptown with Parker in the 1950s but also visiting the apartment on Avenue B where Parker was then living with Chan."We opened Birdland together," Mr. Haynes added, referring to the defunct nightclub on Broadway near 52nd Street, rather than the current club of the same name on West 44th Street. "Bird was very excited about that. I remember on opening night there were lines of people outside, waiting in bad weather."Parker did not own Birdland — that distinction belonged mainly to the infamous music-business operator Morris Levy — but the club's name confirmed the height of his celebrity. "In 1946," Mr. Schaap said, "Parker was under arrest, he was institutionalized, he was depressed, relatively few people knew him, his future was in grave doubt, even his life expectancy was in grave doubt. Three years later, arguably the best-known nightclub in New York City history is named for him using his nickname alone, in the diminutive."More recognition followed. By the 1950s Parker was finally winning jazz polls, and he had some popular success with "Just Friends" (from his sessions with strings) and "My Little Suede Shoes" (from a Latin-themed date that included Mr. Haynes). According to Mr. Schaap, Parker was enjoying the amenities of the city, from taxicabs to municipal swimming pools.But when, in the summer of 1951, Parker's state-issued cabaret license was revoked, he was barred from working in New York. As his condition deteriorated and the jazz world grew crowded with his imitators, he was forced to seek work on the road. And in 1954, when Chan sent word that their 2-year-old daughter, Pree, had died of pneumonia, the shock sent Parker into a tailspin.His final descent was brutal: botched engagements, a suicide attempt, confinement at Bellevue, lurid tabloid speculation. Days after a ruinous last stand at Birdland, Parker stopped at the Hotel Stanhope, home of the Baroness Nica de Koenigswarter, a jazz patron with aristocratic pedigree. He stayed a few days, under some supervision by her doctor, and died there on March 12, 1955. The technical cause was pneumonia, but his 34-year-old body was so thoroughly ravaged that the doctor estimated his age as 53.In seemingly no time the defiant inscription "Bird Lives!" began appearing on otherwise unmarked subway station walls. The poet Ted Joans eventually owned up to starting the trend, but he could hardly account for its proliferation. This weekend's festivities convey precisely the same message, and it will still feel more or less true, perhaps because both the music and the city have conspired to keep it that way.MAYA ARULPRAGASAM'S Brooklyn apartment was a neglected mess when she finally returned to it last month after six months abroad. But it took only a day to straighten it up and turn it into her version of a pied-à-terre, a makeshift multimedia headquarters. An audio mixing board, film canisters and shiny gold and black dancing outfits stood on one side of the apartment, and half of an uneaten papaya waited on a table in the back.Ms. Arulpragasam — better known as the rapper M.I.A. — was in town for only about a week before going on tour, and when asked when she would return to the apartment, a spacious studio in Bedford-Stuyvesant, a Caribbean and African immigrant neighborhood, she shrugged. "I spent time finding that couch," she said, pointing to one of the few items of furniture, "and I haven't even sat in it."Displacement is nothing new for M.I.A.; in fact she seems to thrive on it. A description of her life and music is inevitably like one of those old movie montages in which an airplane zigzags across a map from continent to distant continent: She left Sri Lanka at the age of 9, a refugee from an ethnic civil war that's still roiling, and discovered hip-hop in a London housing project. After art school in Britain she began making music that was simple and handmade but had a staggering, far-reaching ambition, with flirty yet brutally evocative lyrics set against whip-crack electro beats, dancehall reggae and Brazilian baile funk.Her debut album, "Arular" (2005), sold a modest 129,000 copies but was a critical jackpot, both in the mainstream press and the blogosphere. For her follow-up, "Kala," to be released by Interscope Records on Tuesday, the original strategy was the conventional one: to pair up with brand-name producers and shoot for pop hits. But things did not go according to plan. Instead the album  became, by necessity and by choice, another restless, far-flung journey.Blocked from returning to the United States for most of the last year because of delays in renewing her working visa, she wound up traveling to India, Jamaica, Trinidad and Australia, recording along the way with portable gear. The resulting songs feel airborne and deliberately rootless. The enormous drums of "Boyz," for example, were recorded in India, but the rest of the song — a Bollywood-tinged club banger about the rowdy, war-starting sex — was made in Trinidad. "World Town" rewrites a Baltimore hip-hop anthem for a violent third-world ghetto; the dizzyingly abstract percussion loop of "BirdFlu" is spiked with Indian dhol drums and chicken squawks."I'm just trying to build some sort of bridge," she said of her work, picking at a slice of Oreo cookie cake. "I'm trying to create a third place, somewhere in between the developed world and the developing world.""Arular" was named after her father, who has been associated with the Tamil Tigers, the rebel group fighting for a separate state for the Tamil minority in Sri Lanka. On that album she played freely with the imagery of militancy and propaganda; the cover and interior artwork, which M.I.A. designed herself, was covered with spray-painted guns, tigers, tanks and soldiers. "Kala" is named for her mother, a seamstress who raised her three children alone, and the album is ostensibly about the survival hustle of displaced people. "We do it cheap, hide our money in a heap/Send it home and make 'em study," she whispers in "Hussel," which begins with the chants of Indian boatmen.Disarmingly tiny and polite in person,  M.I.A. speaks with articulate vigor in a British accent peppered with street slang. But not everything about her is as up-front as her lyrics, and even her record label equivocates when it comes to pinning down biographical information. When asked to confirm M.I.A.'s age, a spokeswoman at Interscope waffled between 30 and 31; her manager, Tiffany Steffens, said that M.I.A.'s passport gives her age at 32. Like many details of her past, it can't be verified very easily.M.I.A. has called "Kala" her "feminine" album and her tribute to the everyday sacrifices of her mother, and as she spent part of an afternoon shopping for fabric and medallions to sew onto the outfit she would perform in that night, it wasn't hard to imagine a little of her mother in her. One of her new songs, "Jimmy," is based on an early-'80s Bollywood disco hit, which she said evoked comforting childhood memories of dancing at parties and weddings. "This album is also about the other stories," she said, "the good things you remember."But politics are still front and center in "Kala." While "Arular" was partly rooted in her own experience of escaping a war zone, in "Kala" she moves beyond her own story, embracing the role of globe-trotting, chest-beating ambassador for all the world's downtrodden. In her new videos she commands armies of male dancers, and the album is full of Bono-esque declarations. "M.I.A., third world democracy/I got more records than the K.G.B.," she asserts in the Clash-sampling "Paper Planes," and on "20 Dollar," about the cheap availability of guns in Africa, she boasts, "I put people on the map that never seen a map."Rekha Malhotra, who as DJ Rekha is the public face of bhangra music in New York, said, "There's a history within South Asian thinking of fierce women, and Maya is definitely part of it."Travel exigencies may have prevented her from doing much recording in America, but as M.I.A. frames the story now, she also became disillusioned early on with the prospect of making a pop album, dismissing the privilege of working with big-name producers: "By the time I got to America," she said, "every amazing producer I could have possibly gone to work with, Paris Hilton had already been there. So I carried on doing my thing elsewhere. Because you know what? Me and Paris would deliver the same song, right? Because technically they always want me to sing about sex. And guess what? She has more time on her hands to sing about that than me."(In the end Timbaland did produce one track on the album, "Come Around," a mediocre leftover from sessions for his own recent solo record.) While "Arular" had a limited sonic scope — it's basically an upbeat party record, until you notice the narratives of violence and frantic escape — "Kala" globalizes the M.I.A. sound even further. The trade-off is that in spite of exhilarating moments like "Boyz" and "BirdFlu," the album is less unified than its predecessor, and in some spots commits the grave sin of being undanceable.But M.I.A.'s methods created other problems; it turns out that it's quite complicated for a major record label to release an album recorded all over the world with an ad hoc cast of local collaborators who were not initially asked to sign legal releases. "I didn't realize how anal everyone is when it comes to paperwork," she said, without a trace of sarcasm.Mark Williams, her artist-and-repertory contact at the label, chuckled slightly — and only slightly — when the subject of said paperwork came up. "She has a fine battalion of clearance attorneys," he said.And then there are her politics to consider. The issues she raises are far more complex and discomfiting than pop's usual calls for peace and recycling. And given the dearth of outspoken young female stars, she's a rarity.Still, her objectives have not been spelled out very clearly, leading to robust debate online and in the music press about her perceived sympathies with the Palestine Liberation Organization ("Like P.L.O. I don't surrender," she sings in "Sunshowers" from "Arular") and the Tamil Tigers,  known for their strategic use of suicide bombing. Sensing radical chic, Slate magazine said the agitprop of the lyrics and artwork on her first album feel "more like an idle attempt at provocation than engaged expression."M.I.A. denies any political advocacy and said that despite her use of  jingoistic imagery her songs come from the point of view of the powerless noncombatant. "I wanted it to be about how confusing it is to talk about things as a civilian when you are caught up in something like that," she said of "Arular." "You can never say good and evil, and 'We'll fight the axis of evil,' because it's a confused line. Eighty percent of that argument is actually gray matter."Even in conversation M.I.A. leapfrogs the planet. Over a couple of hours she discussed an uncle who works for Amnesty International in Sri Lanka; described shooting a gun into the Baltimore sky on New Year's Eve with Blaqstarr, one of the producers on "Kala"; wondered whether Nelson Mandela deserves her respect as a good family man; and recounted a trip to Liberia to help  reintroduce former child soldiers into society. "I went there just as a human being," she said. "I wanted to see what a country looks like after a war because I come from a place that has never seen the end of it."These have not traditionally been blockbuster topics in pop music, and along with M.I.A.'s unorthodox recording choices, the bad track record of British rappers in the American market and her intense if ambiguous political messages, they raise the question of how much impact she can have on the mainstream.Jimmy Iovine, Interscope's chairman, did not seem overly concerned and compared her to Patti Smith and Lou Reed. "The really left-of-center artists," he said, calling from a dentist's chair on a Saturday morning, "you really wonder about them. Can the world catch up? Can the culture meet them in the middle? That's what the adventure is. It doesn't always happen, but it should and it could."M.I.A. said she has already reached an important goal. "The fact that I'm even in the music game," she said, "the fact that I even get questioned on who I am and what I'm doing here — it's enough." Her biggest priority, she added, is "staying by my creativity, because that is actually the only thing I have."Late that night at Studio B, a club in the heart of hipster Brooklyn, M.I.A. took the stage in lace-up gold tights and immaculate white high-top sneakers, looking like a Fly Girl from television's "In Living Color"  in 1990. That sight alone drew a lusty cheer.The biggest response from the far-beyond-sold-out crowd, though, was for "Pull Up the People," a favorite from "Arular," in which she calls herself a soldier and "a nice, nice fighter." With a sharp beat and quirky hooks, it's the kind of song that works perfectly on a dance floor regardless of whether the dancers know or care anything about the lyrics. But this crowd knew them well. As M.I.A. held out the microphone to her fans, they chanted her signature line."I've got the bombs to make you blow," they hollered. "I got the beats to make it bang."HOLMDEL, N.J., Aug. 16 — It seemed like a fairly ordinary day on Ozzy Osbourne's annual Ozzfest tour, held this year at the PNC Bank Arts Center.Musclebound bruisers mixed with pallid lurkers and affectionate couples and aging obsessives. Depending on your preference, this traveling heavy-metal festival can provide hours of chaos and decadence, or hours of family fun. (Or both: at least one sturdy-looking paterfamilias in the crowd was observed drinking beer until his bladder was full, and then — uh-oh — drinking some more.) Guitars were throttled, devil horns were thrown, invitations to turn the parking lot into a high-contact dance floor were issued from the stage. The usual, in other words.Sadly, Thursday's show wasn't quite as run-of-the-mill as it seemed. On Friday, the New Jersey State Police confirmed that two men who passed out at the concert had died, both from heart attacks; the police said they believed both men had ingested alcohol, marijuana and cocaine .  There were also 83 arrests at the concert, many for under-age drinking. With a tally like that, it's hard to argue that the concert was anything but a disaster, regardless of the music.It would be absurd, though, to try finding a connection between the tragedy and the music itself. Of course Ozzfest draws rowdy young people (what kind of concert would you expect rowdy young people to attend?), but the problems this year probably had less to do with content and more to do with crowd control. In fact, the police have been fighting under-age drinking at the center all summer long; there were more arrests — 90 — at a recent concert there by the peaceable quasi jam band O.A.R.Even before Thursday's concert, this had been a tricky year for Ozzfest. The tour is free this year, for the first time, though free doesn't mean easy. Fans could get a pair of tickets by visiting the Web sites of corporate sponsors, or by buying Mr. Osbourne's new album, "Black Rain" (Epic). Prime seats were — and, in some cities, still are — available as part of V.I.P. packages, with prices starting at $300. And in New Jersey, parking added another $25.In February, during the initial Ozzfest announcement, Mr. Osbourne's wife, Sharon Osbourne, explained that none of the bands would be paid. Perhaps that explained the rather thin lineup. While previous editions have included big draws ranging from System of a Down to Iron Maiden, this year's No. 2 act was Lamb of God, a popular and widely respected band but not an arena-filler.People showed up, regardless, lured by the Ozzfest brand, and by the chance to watch Mr. Osbourne warble some old songs and new ones. He's 58, and he sounds pretty awful, but he does work hard, spraying audience members with foam, clapping awkwardly along (on the 1 and 3, not the 2 and 4), and giving the guitarist Zakk Wylde plenty of space to unleash screaming harmonics. Fans even cheered when Mr. Osbourne broke out the love songs: at Ozzfest, he is the only performer allowed to sing a piano ballad.Many of the rest of the acts split along national lines. Some of the American ones seemed to be working in the shadow of Pantera, the band that perfected guttural, rhythmic metal in the early 1990s. Lamb of God (performing with a banner that read, "Pure American Metal") unleashed one corrosive assault after another; Hatebreed's set was full of hard-stomping half-speed mosh parts, as well as motivational speeches from the lead barker, Jamey Jasta (he explained that the band's 2006 album, "Supremacy," was about "gaining supremacy about that person inside yourself, because we can be our own worst enemies); Static-X delivered one uninspired rhythmic riff after another.Then there was the international contingent, promoting a weirder vision of metal. Members of the Finnish band Lordi, notorious for (somehow) winning the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest, have found a pleasantly stupid way to become monsters of rock: they dress up like monsters and sing ridiculous songs like "Hard Rock Hallelujah." They also discovered the key to winning over Ozzfest fans: constant pyrotechnics.Fans who missed two of the weirdest and best acts on the bill, the Taiwanese black-metal band Chthonic and the shredding, Egypt-obsessed Nile, get a second chance: both are scheduled to play the B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, in Times Square, on Tuesday night. But there's no such luck for fans who missed Behemoth, a Polish group that earned a respectful but slightly puzzled reaction. The members have found a way to combine the brutal clarity of death metal with the eerie atmospherics of black metal. On a day not likely (for more than one reason) to be remembered for music, Behemoth sounded great, and provided a bizarre and deeply satisfying spectacle: four face-painted Poles paying fearsome tribute to the old gods in a New Jersey parking lot.Bobby Robinson sat in a lawn chair in the Harlem record store he opened before R & B music got its name, speaking softly about days of old and of an uncertain future, his strong face barely betraying his 90 years of life.Around him, family members and friends chatted about topics ranging from food to Barack Obama. One person sat in a chair reading a newspaper, another sat on a cooler drinking a can of beer with a straw, yet another ate a slice of pizza.And in a span of roughly two hours, the store had only three customers, who browsed the selection of gospel, jazz and soul records, cassettes and CDs. Only one made a purchase.With computerized music in full swing, Mr. Robinson's store, Bobby's Happy House, which he opened in 1946, is hardly about selling records, cassettes or CDs anymore. It has become a landmark of Harlem's black heritage and a place that residents of the neighborhood can call home."It's a positive place," said Josephine Bush, 55, who grew up with Mr. Robinson's daughter and often spends time at the shop. "It's just comfortable. You can come in and relax."But because Mr. Robinson's store is no longer lucrative, it may succumb to Harlem's growing corporate landscape. This summer, the building that houses Bobby's was sold to a development partnership of the Kimco Realty Corporation and the Sigfeld Group. Mr. Robinson was asked to leave by the end of last month.Some neighbors held a rally on his behalf, and then his lawyer helped arrange a deal last week that will let him stay until early next year and receive money from the new management group for his move. The new owners did not return several phone calls seeking an interview.Even if Mr. Robinson finds a new location, however, the market rates for commercial space in Harlem, and throughout Manhattan, could make it difficult for the store to survive, said Denise Benjamin, Mr. Robinson's daughter, who now runs the store."I'm concerned that we may not be able to reopen anywhere," Ms. Benjamin said."And I'm really concerned about him because it's his life work," she said of her father.Mr. Robinson came to Harlem and opened his store after serving in the Army in Hawaii. He was originally on 125th Street, at the corner of Frederick Douglass Boulevard. Nearly 20 years ago, he was forced around the corner and onto Frederick Douglass by the advent of a Kentucky Fried Chicken branch.Even with that move, Mr. Robinson had the same landlord, a friend who Ms. Benjamin said gave him a good deal on rent. When that building owner died, his daughter took over and continued to charge Mr. Robinson a manageable rent.Ms. Benjamin said they now pay $2,850 a month for about 1,200 square feet, which is the equivalent of $28.50 per square foot per year. Retail space in Harlem is generally going for $75 to $200 per square foot per year, according to separate estimates by Shimon Shkury, a managing partner at Massey Knakal Realty Services, and CB Richard Ellis, a brokerage firm.Of course, Mr. Robinson could move out of Harlem, but that would be less than desirable. For one thing, Mr. Robinson is widely believed to be the first black business owner on 125th Street — a distinction that his new landlords agreed to note in a plaque at the site of his original storefront. He has also lived within walking distance of his store since it opened."Harlem is my home," he said. "It always sets me apart as the first colored man to ever own a store on 125th Street. That's my big thing."Indeed, some people believe that Harlem without Bobby's would not be the same.The store is a stop on Hush Tours, which takes people for a close look at the hip-hop culture in Harlem and the Bronx. Debra Harris,  who owns the tour company, said the visit to Bobby's helps people gain a sense of the roots of hip-hop: Mr. Robinson produced records for several performers under his own labels."With that being gone, it's really, really going to hurt the community and the preservation of the roots of hip-hop," Ms. Harris said, "because he's like one of the last Mohicans up there."For the moment, however, Mr. Robinson, who was dressed in a suit with a top hat and snakeskin shoes, seems to be proceeding with the unruffled demeanor of a man who has lived his life note by note."I've had a great life so far," he said.The British singer Amy Winehouse, top,  received four nominations for the 12th annual Music of Black Origin (Mobo) Awards, BBC News reported yesterday.  Ms. Winehouse,  23,  who  just canceled a string of concerts because of illness, is up for best British female, best R&B act, best video and best song. The rapper Dizzee Rascal, above, has also been nominated for four awards: best United Kingdom male, best hip-hop act, best song and best video (for "Sirens").  Mobo  winners are chosen by voting on the awards show's Web site (mobo.com).The presentation will be  at the O2 arena in London on Sept. 19; it will also be  broadcast live on the digital channel BBC Three.In Russia, Denis V. Kvasov is a just a hard-working, tax-paying entrepreneur. To the Western music industry, Mr. Kvasov is responsible for spreading Internet music piracy on a global scale.Mr. Kvasov is the founder and former director of allofmp3.com, the Russian digital music download site that became a hit before it was shut down in July as a condition of Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization. The United States State Department called it among the worst Web piracy sites in the world.The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, a music industry lobbying group, had hoped that Mr. Kvasov would get prison time in a Russian criminal case. That, the group said, would send a message to Web pirates in Eastern Europe and China.But Mr. Kvasov was cleared of criminal wrongdoing by  Cheryomuskinsky  District Court in Moscow last Wednesday. He had faced up to five years in prison after being accused of copyright infringement."We are disappointed," said Igor B. Pozhitkov, the director of the federation for former Soviet states. "The operation of this notorious Web site was a crime."Mr. Kvasov, 29, now a free man with a clean record in Russia, ran allofmp3.com out of  his Moscow apartment, according to his defense lawyers. It earned roughly $18 million a year and claimed to be the world's second-largest music download storefront, after iTunes. The company sold albums for $1, citing a provision in Russian copyright law  —  while competitors like iTunes sell just one song for that price. ANDREW E. KRAMER  'SMACKDOWN' IN CHINA The United States has exported Disneyland, Nike and even McDonald's to China. But professional wrestling?Yes, programs from World Wrestling Entertainment like "SmackDown" and "Raw" are headed to the Chinese. Linda E. McMahon, the company's chief executive, said that she recently returned from two weeks of travel  from Hong Kong to Beijing and several points in between, meeting with broadcasters, advertisers and government officials.She also officially opened a W.W.E. office in Shanghai.  "We are looking at China as an incredible marketplace for us," she said.Mrs. McMahon said that viewers overseas see the same celebrity wrestlers as they do on American television and follow the same storylines,  in condensed versions.But are China's 1.3 billion people ready for "W.W.E. Raw," even in abbreviated form?"We are already on two provincial stations and have been on the air since January," she  said. "And they have recently increased the number of hours of programming that they want. That is a good sign, but it's slow-growing." JUSTON JONES AND IN THIS CORNER... A condo developer is pitting Wall Street executives against one another in a charity boxing event meant to create some buzz about its properties."Lots of our buyers are from Wall Street," said Raizy Haas, senior vice president for development at the Extell Development Corporation. "It just hit me one day that we should do this. Traders and bankers need to be focused and aggressive. These are all the traits you need to be a good boxer."The event, set for Nov. 1, was announced last week at the New York Mercantile Exchange, where Wall Street pugilists gathered to ring the closing bell alongside  Marc V. Shaw, a former New York deputy mayor and now an Extell executive vice president.More than 100 men — no women — answered an e-mail blast inviting them to participate, Ms. Haas said. Of those, 24 were tapped to train at the Trinity Boxing Club, one of Wall Street's oldest gyms. Leading up to the match, there will be weigh-ins and fund-raisers at Extell buildings and offices.The boxing pundit Bert Sugar is host for the main event, which is being staged by Trader Monthly and Dealmaker magazines, where Extell is an advertiser.Prize money will go to charities, including Tuesday's Children, which helps people who lost loved ones in the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and Say Yes to Education, which helps pay for college tuition.Six months after fight night, if a boxer shows that he brought in a condo buyer, Extell will double its charity contribution,  Ms. Haas said.   LOUISE KRAMERA MONTH LATER, A BONUS RICHER  Less than two years ago, Nortel Networks gave its president for North America, Dion C. Joannou, 750,000 reasons to stay in his job for a while.For remaining with the company until July 31, 2006, he collected a bonus of $375,000, which increased his total pay for last year to more than $2.1 million. He stood to collect another bonus of the same amount if he stayed with Nortel through Tuesday, July 31.This month, Nortel announced that Mr. Joannou, 41, had resigned to pursue other personal interests, effective Aug. 31. PATRICK McGEEHAN 
