Concertgoers like you and me  have become part police officer, part public offender. We prosecute the shuffled foot or rattled program, the errant whisper or misplaced cough. We tense at the end of a movement, fearful that one of the unwashed will begin to clap, bringing shame on us all. How serious we look, and how absurd we are."Silence is not what we artists want," Kenneth Hamilton quotes Beethoven in "After the Golden Age," a detailed reflection on concert behavior in the 19th and early 20th centuries published recently by Oxford University Press. "We want applause."George Bernard Shaw, wearing his music critic's hat, wrote that the silence at a London performance of Liszt's "Dante" Symphony represented not rapt attention but audience distaste. Liszt, Anton Rubinstein and virtuosos like them would have been offended had listeners not clapped between movements, although in Beethoven's case the point is moot, given that hardly anybody played more than one movement of a Beethoven sonata at a time.I owe this information, along with most of the anecdotes that follow, to Mr. Hamilton's delightful book, which you should read. People, he writes, also clapped while the music was going on. When Chopin played his Variations on "Là ci darem la mano" with orchestra, the audience bestowed its showstopping approval after every variation. As late as 1920, a Berlin audience was applauding Ferruccio Busoni in the middle of  "La Campanella."Liszt, the composer of that piece, was observed in dignified old age, yelling bravos from the audience as Anton Rubinstein played Mozart's A minor Rondo. Hans von Bülow boasted to his students that his performance in the first-movement cadenza of Beethoven's "Emperor" Concerto regularly brought down the house, no matter that the movement wasn't over.In condemning modern recitals as canned, without spontaneity, literal and deadened by solemnity, Mr. Hamilton sometimes overstates the case. In the best of circumstances silence during a good performance becomes something palpable, not just an absence of noise. Involved audiences can shout approval without making a sound.In describing the hypocrisies of "golden age" pursuers and other nostalgia freaks, on the other hand, he has a point. If music is to go back to original instruments and original performance practices, it has to acknowledge original audiences too.Elias Canetti's 1960 book "Crowds and Power" offers the best metaphor for modern concerts: the Roman Catholic Mass. Worshipers accept instructions from an executive operating from a raised platform at the front. They  speak when spoken to and otherwise shut up. Mr. Hamilton attributes a lot of this recently acquired holiness to the recording age, but I think it has more to do with Germanic art's taking itself deadly seriously. Every Mozart sonata is like Wagner's "Parsifal," and listeners should get down on their knees.Audience participation was taken for granted in the 1840s. The pianist Alexander Dreyschock was criticized for playing "so loud that it made it difficult for the ladies to talk,"  Mr. Hamilton writes. Today's listeners, still eager to make themselves known, have been reduced to subversive acts in a fascistic society. When they are not interested, they cough. Operagoers long to be the first to be heard as the curtain falls. Anticipating the final cadences in Donizetti doesn't make much difference. In "Parsifal" it is a disaster, and a frequent one.Concerts were different back then. Liszt could get away with the radical idea of "one man, one recital," but musical events were usually variety shows in the manner of vaudeville. The star pianist or violinist was just an occasionally recurring act in a parade of singers, orchestra players, quartets and trios. When Liszt did his solo acts, there was none of the march-on, march-off stage ritual of today. Liszt greeted patrons at the door, mingled in the audience and schmoozed with friend and stranger alike.Whole recitals also took place between acts of an opera or movements of a symphony. When Chopin played his E minor Piano Concerto in Warsaw in 1830, other pieces were inserted between the first two movements. Perhaps the most celebrated such interruption was at the 1806 premiere of Beethoven's Violin Concerto in Vienna, where the soloist thrilled listeners by playing his violin upside down and on one string.Memorization was evidently as much prized in the 1800s as it is now, though people like Chopin and Beethoven thought that playing with scores increased accountability. Virtuosos like Anton Rubinstein learned by heart but frequently forgot what they had memorized. I once heard Arthur Rubinstein become lost in Ravel's "Valses Nobles et Sentimentales," simply diddling idly on the piano for a while before remembering what came next.No one seemed to mind mistakes. If Liszt landed on a wrong note, he would treat it as a modulation, inventing a new passage on the spot. The idea of "Werktreue," or honoring what the score says, was a weaker argument in the 19th century.  Bülow told pupils that the occasionally planted clinker showed audiences how hard the piece at hand was.My favorite music criticism is from a German on Brahms's  playing his own B flat Piano Concerto. "Brahms did not play the right notes," he wrote, "but he played like a man who knew what the right notes were."There are still flickers of audience involvement in concerts, but so brainwashed are we by prevailing decorum that they make us nervous. Once in Havana I became troubled by two men in front of me talking excitedly during a performance of a Liszt piano concerto until I realized they were arguing the interpretation blow by blow.Another time, late on a Spanish evening many years ago, I heard a village band competition at the bullring in Valencia. The playing was  astonishing, and as a particular performance gradually took hold of the audience, low hums of approval would grow into something approaching wordless roars. It was the most profound concert experience of my life.CLASSICALFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.Opera★ 'IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA' (Saturday) Bartlett Sher's breezy production of Rossini's "Barbiere di Siviglia"  conveys the comic confusions of the story through its fluid staging and a wonderfully abstract set: a matrix of movable doors, staircases and potted orange trees, behind which characters spy on one another. For this season's revival the Met is fielding a new cast, including, on Saturday night, two artists in newsworthy company debuts: the Latvian soprano Elina Garanca sings Rosina,  and the Spanish tenor José Manuel Zapata sings Count Almaviva. The hardy Italian baritone Franco Vassallo returns in the role of his 2005 Met debut, Figaro, the enterprising barber of the opera's title.  At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $120 to $220. (Anthony Tommasini)BRONX OPERA (Saturday and Sunday) For those willing to venture outside of Lincoln Center Plaza, there are a number of intrepid companies staging operas through the city. This weekend the Bronx Opera opens its 40th season with a production of Offenbach's "Orpheus in the Underworld," directed by Royston Coppenger and conducted by Michael Spierman and Eric Kramer. Saturday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m., Lehman College, Lovinger Theater, Bedford Park Boulevard West, at Goulden Avenue, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 960-8833, bronxopera.org; $15 to $30. (Vivien Schweitzer)★ GOTHAM CHAMBER OPERA (Wednesday and Thursday) This impressive company, whose last season was notable for a witty production of Rossini's "Signor Bruschino," has teamed up with the Morgan Library & Museum for "Scenes of Gypsy Life," a double bill featuring Janacek's "Diary of One Who Disappeared" and Dvorak's "Gypsy Songs." The production was designed for the Morgan's intimate Gilder Lehrman Hall by Neal Goren, the artistic director, and Eric Einhorn, the stage director.  At 7:30 p.m., 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org; $45. (Schweitzer)★ 'HANSEL AND GRETEL' (Friday) Humperdinck's richly Wagnerian yet tune-filled "Hansel and Gretel" has come to the Met as family fare — a dark, surreal, sometimes baffling yet intriguing new production by Richard Jones.  Severe hunger is Mr. Jones's theme. All three acts are set in strange kitchens: the drab 1950s kitchen of Hansel and Gretel's impoverished family; an Expressionistic kitchen-dining room with leafy wallpaper to symbolize the forest where the siblings become lost; and an industrial-size, stainless-steel kitchen where the Witch bakes her child victims into gingerbread. The mezzo-soprano Alice Coote and the soprano Christine Schäfer are charming as Hansel and Gretel, though their English diction is hopeless. The tenor Philip Langridge makes a daffy and glutinous Witch. Vladimir Jurowski conducts a resonant and radiant performance. At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $205.(Tommasini)★ 'MACBETH' (Saturday and Tuesday) In his Met debut the English director Adrian Noble has created a stylistically eclectic, grimly effective and, at times, intriguingly playful new production of Verdi's breakthrough early masterpiece. Introduced in October, this modern-dress staging blends contemporary and melodramatic touches: The chorus of witches is portrayed as a coven of bag ladies in frumpy coats with bulging handbags. James Levine's exciting and insightful conducting is the highlight of the production. The baritone Lado Ataneli is Macbeth for this run of performances in January. The soprano Maria Guleghina sings Lady Macbeth on Saturday afternoon; the Met has not announced who will sing that role on Tuesday. The excellent bass John Relyea returns as Banquo. Saturday at 1:30 p.m., Tuesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $120 to $220 on Saturday; $15 to $175 on Tuesday. (Tommasini)★ NEW YORK GILBERT AND SULLIVAN PLAYERS (Friday through Sunday) Budget stringencies notwithstanding, this venerable troupe invariably turns out the Savoyard repertory in style and with solid casts. And its recent move to City Center has helped its productions seem theatrical rather than endearingly makeshift. The first part of its G&S Fest 2008 includes performances of the "Pirates of Penzance" on Friday and Sunday, "The Mikado" on Saturday afternoon and the more rarely heard "Princess Ida" on Saturday evening. (The company returns for more in June.) Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m.,  131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nygasp.org; $40 to $96.(Allan Kozinn)TCHAIKOVSKY OPERA AND BALLET THEATER OF PERM (Wednesday) In the first appearance of this Russian opera company, Valery Platonov conducts a fully staged production of "Mazeppa," featuring the Russian baritone Victor Chernomortsev in the title role. At 7:30 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $35 to $85. (Schweitzer)★ 'DIE WALKÜRE' (Monday) Lorin Maazel, at 77, has finally returned to the Metropolitan Opera. He is conducting five of the six performances this season of Wagner's touchstone "Die Walküre." On opening night he drew a lucidly textured, rhythmically incisive and strongly conceived account of the score from the orchestra, which played superbly, and the top-notch cast. Mr. Maazel can sometimes be a manipulative interpreter, but here his ideas, though often pronounced, were always compelling. The cast boasted the fearless soprano Lisa Gasteen as Brünnhilde, the stirring heldentenor Clifton Forbis as Siegmund, the luminous soprano Adrianne Pieczonka as Sieglinde and the chilling bass Mikhail Petrenko as Hunding. The veteran bass-baritone James Morris, an acclaimed Wotan, recalled the days of his prime with his rich, powerful and authoritative performance. The good news for Wagner buffs was the stunning Fricka of the remarkably versatile mezzo-soprano Stephanie Blythe, in her first Wagner role at the Met. May it not be her last. At 6:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $175. (Tommasini)Classical MusicGAIL ARCHER (Sunday) The Olivier Messiaen centennial is almost upon us, and the organist Gail Archer will be playing his music in different churches around the city. This weekend it will be "La Nativité du Seigneur." At 4 p.m., Church of the Heavenly Rest, Fifth Avenue at 90th Street, (212) 289-3400, heavenlyrest.org; free. (Bernard Holland)BARGEMUSIC (Friday through Sunday) This converted coffee barge, moored on the Brooklyn side of the East River, is the kind of intimate space chamber music is made for. On Friday and Sunday Mark Peskanov, the violinist (and Bargemusic's artistic and executive director), leads a trio that includes the pianist Olga Vinokur and the cellist Wendy Warner  in a program that brings together Shostakovich's searing Trio No. 2 and Arensky's rich-hued Trio No. 1. Mr. Peskanov opens the program with the first of Bach's solo violin sonatas. On Saturday another trio (featuring Mr. Peskanov, the cellist Ani Kalayjian and the pianist Doris Stevenson) offers  Brahms, Shostakovich and Tchaikovsky.  On Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org. $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+ on Friday only. (Kozinn)CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Sunday and Tuesday) The versatile and virtuosic bassist Edgar Meyer has played music from classical to bluegrass with an eclectic array of artists. Here Mr. Meyer (also a composer) performs the New York premiere of his Serenade for double bass and wind octet, sandwiched between two Mozart wind serenades, in E flat (K. 375) and C minor (K. 388). Sunday at 5 p.m., Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; $29 and $41 (sold out on Sunday).(Schweitzer)CHAMBERFEST (Monday through Thursday) The young musicians of the Juilliard School are heard throughout the season playing in orchestra and new-music concerts, and as the pit band for the school's opera productions. Chamberfest, now in its seventh year, puts them onstage in a more personal setting.  The repertory varies from staples like the Brahms Piano Quartets (No. 2 is on Tuesday, No. 3 on Wednesday), Messiaen's "Quartet for the End of Time" and the Ravel String Quartet (both on Thursday), to less frequently heard scores like the Franck Piano Quintet (on Monday), the Ives Piano Trio and the Françaix Clarinet Trio (both on Tuesday). Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., Wednesday at 1 and 8 p.m.,  Juilliard School, 144 West 66th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu; free. (Kozinn)★ ENSEMBLE ACJW (Friday) It may be hard to remember the  shorthand moniker of this chamber group composed of gifted postgraduate musicians from the new training academy jointly run by Carnegie Hall, the Juilliard School and the Weill Music Institute. But you are likely to remember its concerts, since the players are top-notch, and the programming adventurous. For this free program at Juilliard's Paul Hall, the ensemble plays two works that grapple with timelessness: Alan Hovhaness's seldom-heard "Mountains and Rivers Without End" and Messiaen's mystical "Quartet for the End of Time." At 8 p.m., 144 West 66th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu; tickets are required. (Tommasini)★ RADU LUPU (Monday) This elegant and always affecting pianist will play Schubert (the Sonata in D, D. 850) and Debussy (the first book of "Préludes"). An exceptional musician and exceptional music. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $32 to $108. (Holland)★ MAKING MUSIC: PIERRE BOULEZ (Thursday) This estimable series offers Mr. Boulez's early trendsetter "Le Marteau Sans Maître" and the later "Sur Incises." This composer conducts, and with Ara Guzelimian as moderator, he will probably have things to say as well. The Lucerne Festival Academy Ensemble plays. Hilary Summers is the contralto soloist. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $28 to $36. (Holland)NEW YORK FESTIVAL OF SONG (Wednesday) Steven Blier's core of singers does not distinguish between the "popular" and the "classical" in this generous and wide-ranging evening. Jerome Kern, Cole Porter, Frank Loesser and even Bruce Springsteen get their moments. So too do André Previn, Kurt Weill, Paul Moravec and Leonard Bernstein. At 8 p.m., Peter Jay Sharp Theater, Juilliard School, 144 West 66th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu; free, but tickets are required.  (Holland)NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Friday, Saturday and next Thursday) The Philharmonic has a full weekend: a Young People's Concert on Saturday afternoon and, on Friday and Saturday evenings, a program more for grown-ups, with the Prokofiev Seventh Symphony and the mezzo-soprano Susan Graham singing Berlioz's hot-blooded dramatic scene "La Mort de Cléopâtre." Lorin Maazel conducts in the evening. Delta David Gier presides over the Saturday afternoon lineup of music by Prokofiev and Strauss with an added moment titled "Very Young Composers of New York." On Thursday Riccardo Muti continues his current tight relationship with the orchestra, bringing his welcome affection for Scriabin, here in the "Poem of Ecstasy." Leif Ove Andsnes will be the pianist in the Brahms B flat Concerto, but the novelty will be Liszt's three-movement survey of the human life span called "From the Cradle to the Grave." Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $29 to $102 (sold out  on Saturday afternoon). (Holland)★ URSULA OPPENS (Thursday) One of Elliott Carter's most eloquent and devoted interpreters since her days as Speculum Musicae's pianist in the 1970s, Ms. Oppens opens Symphony Space's Pianocentric series with a concert of Mr. Carter's piano music,   some of it written with her in mind. At 8 p.m., 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $25 to $30 in advance; $30 to $35 at the door. (Kozinn)★ MARK PADMORE (Tuesday) This fine British tenor, known primarily for his recordings and performances of Baroque music (including an excellent recent Handel disc), sings Schubert's gloomy "Winterreise." His accompanist for the concert  is the jazz pianist Ethan Iverson. At 8 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $35; $15 for students and 65+. (Schweitzer)ROYAL PHILHARMONIC (Saturday) Pinchas Zukerman leads this respected London orchestra in two towering Beethoven scores, the Violin Concerto (which he will conduct from the fiddle) and the Fifth Symphony. At 8 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $25 to $109. (Kozinn)★ CHRISTINE SCHÄFER (Sunday) Female singers who perform the repertory of German lieder have no choice but to sing many songs with texts that express a male point of view. This German soprano turns the tables this weekend at the Rose Theater, when, as part of Lincoln Center's Art of the Song series, she sings a cycle that has been almost exclusively the province of males: Schubert's "Winterreise." Eric Schneider is the pianist.  At 5 p.m.,  Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $30 to $60.  (Tommasini)It wasn't supposed to be a competition, but everyone knew it was. At the Morgan Library & Museum on Thursday, two inanimate objects battled for first place. In one corner stood a Conrad Graff fortepiano from the first part of the 19th century, in the other a seven-foot Steinway grand.Schubert's B flat Sonata was the evening's food for thought, if not bone of contention.Which instrument would do justice to this mind-bending farewell to both life and music?In a preperformance show and tell, Robert Levin seemed delighted to point out the Graff's grace and clarity, and the subtle possibilities inherent in old ways of building pianos. A diplomatic kiss was blown toward the Steinway company, but his little speech was clearly more pitch than mere description.The competing arguments are well worn: Mr. Levin and other old-piano people point out that Schubert played, wrote for and had in his ear the kind of piano heard on Thursday. The keyboard touch and pedal functions of the Graff respond to intended details that modern instruments pave over. A Steinway, the more intemperate might argue, is a bully of a piano, and playing Schubert on it is the equivalent of King Kong trying to caress Fay Wray.New-piano people — and Claude Frank was their advocate at this event — say music lives on beyond its time only if it survives change. Everything from Schubert's world has changed, and archaeology is not going to breathe life into it. Schubert's piano can teach us a lot about how we approach his music, but the solutions to the Graff's limitations and technical weaknesses are embodied in modern pianos. A Stanley Steamer isn't going to fly us to the moon.In all fairness to Mr. Levin's lovely playing and his instrument's gracious tone and transparent articulation, I think Schubert would be happy with the Steinway's ability to sustain the long held notes of his slow movement, tones that fade all too quickly on the Graff next to the music's cross-handed filigree. I also think Schubert might have liked having all that sonic power to hold up the big dramatic attacks at the end of the finale. As it was, one feared for the instrument at hand.And yet, with Mr. Levin's sounds still in the ear, how bloated the modern piano sounded, at least for the first few minutes after intermission. Mr. Frank is a distinguished musician with the experience of three other musical lifetimes put together. But all pianos are different, and this one sounded particularly thick and booming. The smallness of the hall added to a sense of claustrophobia, and Mr. Frank, with the perfect touch for Brahms, was a slightly heavy-handed Schubertian.Schubert profited from the dialogue, however weighted. The modern piano is what we have and what we are, but Mr. Levin had arguments that will remain strong so long as early-music people avoid the moral tone that equates original with virtuous. The way it was is not necessarily the way it ought to be now.Schubert's great sonata comes to us with patina: nearly 200 years of accumulated grit. Patina has the power to make things — old furniture, for example — more beautiful than they originally were, and as the antiques world well knows, restorers too intent on reclaiming original finishes risk turning museum pieces into yard-sale items.When news surfaced over the weekend that 50 Cent, Wyclef Jean, Timbaland and other rap stars had been implicated in a steroids investigation, some hip-hop fans were shocked,  but to many in the industry the accusations seemed inevitable.Although public accusations  of steroid and human-growth-hormone use by rappers and R&B stars — like Mary J. Blige, who was also named in the investigation, according to a report in The Times Union of Albany — are all but unheard of, the latest news struck a chord about the increasing pressure on these performers to maintain perfect, even superhuman physiques as a part of their overall image and brand."The spectacle of hip-hop now is so much greater than it's ever been," said Jeff Chang, the author of the hip-hop history "Can't Stop Won't Stop."  "There's always the battle aesthetic at work, this idea that you're going to go up there and show that you're badder than everybody else. It's part of the swagger that hip-hop carries."The investigation, by the Albany County district attorney's office, has focused on doctors who illegally prescribe drugs for nonmedical purposes. None of the celebrities have been accused of breaking the law, though The Times Union, citing anonymous sources,  reported that the stars have received packages of prescribed steroids and human-growth hormone at their homes, at hotels around the country and at the offices of a Long Island chiropractor.But the  recent news highlights  an issue that has long been whispered about in hip-hop as some performers have leaned ever more heavily on a Schwarzeneggerian body as part of their public image.The producer and rapper Timbaland, whose real name is Tim Mosley, weighed  more than  300 pounds before his dramatic turnaround a few years ago, when he began a rigorous exercise regime and transformed himself into a bodybuilder, dropping more than 100 pounds in the process. Representatives for Timbaland and 50 Cent did not respond to requests for comment yesterday.  A spokeswoman for Ms. Blige said that the singer had never taken steroids, and a spokeswoman for Columbia Records had no comment about Wyclef Jean.Anabolic steroids and human growth hormone can have immediately visible results in rappers as in athletes, decreasing fat tissue and increasing muscle. But the long-term consequences of the growth hormone can be severe, said Dr. Alvin M. Matsumoto of the University of Washington and the  Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System."If you take it in excessive amounts, it will stimulate a lot of soft-tissue growth, make the jaws larger," Dr. Matsumoto said. "There could be a lot of the manifestations of organ enlargement — heart enlargement, liver enlargement. All tissues are enlarged, basically, because of growth-hormone stimulation. And that's not good."Talk has swirled about many rappers who have maintained suspiciously Olympian musculatures.But for 50 Cent, in particular, the news could affect his business. A former boxer, he has long promoted himself as fit and abstemious. He also has a line of vitamin water sold through Glacéau,   which was bought by Coca-Cola last year for $4.1 billion."The marketing of the images is so key now to so many different bottom lines," Mr. Chang said. "Not just the music industry, but a whole range of consumer products. Your body is your brand and you've got to maintain that image. The machoness and braggadoccio, that's always been a part of hip-hop. What's different at the highest levels of the money game in hip-hop is the size of it all."How the allegations will be received by fans, however, is far from clear. Illegal or unsavory behavior carries little stigma in some corners of the hip-hop world. And troubles with the law can even help the all-important celebrity story line."Fans watch these people like they are watching movies," Danyel Smith, editor of Vibe magazine, said. These kind of controversies, she added "are considered another arc in the narrative. People will wait to see what good, and what tragedy, will come of it."Ken Nelson, the record producer behind the twangy Bakersfield Sound made popular by Buck Owens and Merle Haggard, died on Sunday  at his home in Somis, Calif.  He was 96.He died of natural causes, his daughter told The Associated Press.Although best known for his work with Mr. Owens and Mr. Haggard, Mr. Nelson also helped reinvent country music when 1950s rock 'n' rollers like Elvis Presley and Carl Perkins began supplanting perennial hitmakers like Red Foley and Eddy Arnold on the country charts.Rather than treating the big-beat incursion of Mr. Presley and Mr. Perkins as a threat, Mr. Nelson, then the head of the country division of Capitol Records, saw it as an opportunity to take rural music in a more sophisticated direction.First he persuaded  a rising singer named Sonny James to record "Young Love," a smooth romantic ballad, which topped both the country and the pop charts in 1957. He also recruited the Jordanaires, the uptown vocal chorus that had already backed Mr. Presley and Mr. James, to sing on "Gone," a No. 1 country hit for the crooner Ferlin Husky, which reached the pop Top 5.Both "Young Love" and "Gone" became prototypes for the Nashville Sound, which would give country music more mainstream appeal.Meanwhile, Mr. Nelson had signed several young rockabilly acts of his own, most notably Gene Vincent and Wanda Jackson. For Mr. Vincent he produced the hiccupping "Be-Bop-a-Lula," a Top 10 hit on the pop, country and R&B charts in 1956. With Ms. Jackson Mr. Nelson cut the raucous "Let's Have a Party" in 1960.A musical omnivore who briefly oversaw the Capitol label's jazz division as well, Mr. Nelson recorded a broad array of music under the country rubric in his nearly three decades  there. The harmony duo the Louvin Brothers and the swing-inflected band of Hank Thompson both came under his direction.Known for being a hands-off producer who let his artists record with their touring bands instead of insisting that they work with studio professionals, Mr. Nelson consistently  supervised a roster of acts whose music demonstrated how durable and elastic the country genre could be.Kenneth F. Nelson was born on Jan.  19, 1911, in Caledonia, Minn. Placed in an orphanage by his mother when he was an infant, he spent his childhood in Chicago, where he would go on to work in a music store and, later, at a radio station, WJJD. Promoted to music director at the station, Mr. Nelson did everything from announcing  broadcasts of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra to scouting  talent for its "hillbilly" variety show, "Suppertime Frolic."After serving in the Army during World War II, Mr. Nelson returned to Chicago and WJJD. He also began producing sessions for Capitol, eventually moving to Hollywood in 1948 to work for the label full time. By his retirement in 1976 he had produced around  100 chart-topping country hits, including "The Wild Side of Life," a No. 1 record for Mr. Thompson for 15 weeks in 1952.Mr. Owens and Mr. Haggard accounted for more than three dozen of Mr. Nelson's No. 1 recordings. Many of these were unvarnished, emotionally direct performances  that reached beyond country audiences to influence rock acts like the Beatles, Creedence Clearwater Revival and the Flying Burrito Brothers.Mr. Nelson's wife June died in 1984. He is survived by his daughter, Claudia Nelson, and three grandchildren.A co-founder of the Country Music Association, Mr. Nelson was president of that organization's board in 1961 and 1962. In 2001 he was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame. He published an autobiography, "My First 90 Years Plus 3," last year.POPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.CHRIS BROWN, BOW WOW (Thursday) A couple of years ago a teenage Chris Brown arrived with one of the most polite come-ons  of the hip-hop era: "I don't know your name, but excuse me, miss/I saw you from across the room." Badder now at 18, he still can't resist being a sweetie. In his new video, "Kiss Kiss," he plays both the friendly nerd who picks up a girl's books and the bully who assaults his rival with a flying tackle. For this tour he's teamed with the 20-year-old rapper Bow Wow, likewise trying to outgrow his former role as an under-age star. With Soulja Boy and Shop Boyz. At 7:30 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $49.75 to $105.75. (Ben Sisario)RICHARD BUCKNER, 1900S, STEVIE JACKSON (Friday) With a dry baritone and a creaky guitar, Richard Buckner broods about women, booze and death. And he's serious about all this American Gothic stuff: His album "The Hill" was an appropriately bleak setting of 18 poems from Edgar Lee Masters's "Spoon River Anthology." The Chicago-based group 1900s has a fetish for wistful, refined 1960s-style chamber pop à la Belle and Sebastian, one of whose guitarists, Stevie Jackson, is also on this bill. What a coincidence! At 7:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $14.  (Sisario)CHEB I SABBAH, HASSAN HAKMOUN, BASSAM SABA, RIFFAT SULTANA (Friday) The two big concerts of the annual convention for the Association of Performing Arts Presenters are the Winter Jazzfest on Saturday (see Jazz listings) and GlobalFest on Sunday (see below). But this weekend there will be showcases around town for members of the association, who book concert halls and arrange tours. On Friday Sullivan Hall, a new club in Greenwich Village, presents Cheb i Sabbah, an Algerian-born D.J. who uses dance music to blend Arabic and devotional Indian traditions; Hassan Hakmoun, who leads spellbinding trance ceremonies with the bluesy Gnawa music of Morocco; Bassam Saba, who plays the ney, an Arabic reed flute; and Riffat Sultana, a Pakistani singer in the tradition of her father, the esteemed Salamat Ali Khan. At 8:15 p.m., 214 Sullivan Street, near Bleecker Street, (212) 477-2782, sullivanhallnyc.com; $30. (Sisario)JAMES COTTON (Thursday) Playing in Muddy Waters's bands in the 1950s, James Cotton helped define modern blues harmonica with his moaning, wrenching phrases and his train-whistle wails. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $25.50. (Jon Pareles)DANNY AND DUSTY (Saturday) Two decades ago a couple of busy musicians, Dan Stuart and Steve Wynn, took 36 hours away from their regular bands to record a twangy, boozy album, "The Lost Weekend," which became a keystone of alt-country. Last year they reconvened for a long-overdue sequel, "Cast Iron Soul." Popular in Europe, they play their only American show at the Bowery Ballroom. With the Schramms. At 8 p.m., 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $20. (Sisario)KIMYA DAWSON (Wednesday) Though now something of a grande dame of the semi-underground "anti-folk" scene — her songs are all over the best-selling "Juno" soundtrack — Kimya Dawson, for those who remember her in the raunchy New York duo the Moldy Peaches, will always be the acerbic but soft-voiced wit in a fuzzy, filthy bunny costume. With Karl Blau, Angelo Spencer and Cuddles Kovinsky. At 7 p.m., Europa, 98 Meserole Avenue, at Manhattan Avenue, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 383-5723, europaclub.com; $10. (Sisario)DEAD MEADOW, DRAGONS OF ZYNTH (Wednesday) Dead Meadow, from Los Angeles via Washington, takes the time-travel machine back to about 1970, the era of lumbering proto-metal from Blue Cheer and Black Sabbath, and slows everything down even further in a haze of psychedelia. Dragons of Zynth, from New York, claim to have an "auto-physio-psychic" approach to noisemaking. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $13. (Sisario)GENO DELAFOSE AND FRENCH ROCKIN' BOOGIE (Sunday) Geno Delafose, the son of the zydeco accordionist John Delafose, holds on to the traditions of an older generation, pumping waltzes and two-steps and blues on his button accordion, keeping the old bayou flavor. At 7:30 p.m., with a free dance lesson at 6; Connolly's, 121 West 45th Street, Manhattan, (212) 685-7597, letszydeco.com; $22. (Pareles)EDITORS, HOT HOT HEAT (Thursday) Editors, from Birmingham, England, chose a fitting name: The band stitches together material from other sources with skill, joining the baritone-of-gloom vocals of Joy Division ("Oh, if fortune favors the brave/I am as poor as they come") and the early U2's sheets of guitar. Hot Hot Heat, from British Columbia, takes from the jumpier side of new wave, though its albums have been getting progressively darker. With Louis XIV. At 8 p.m., Terminal 5, 610 West 56th Street, Clinton, (212) 260-4700, terminal5nyc.com; $27.50. (Sisario)EXCEPTER, ECSTATIC SUNSHINE, RELIGIOUS KNIVES (Friday) Excepter's songs, with gurgling, irregular electronic blips, evoke the aimless flailings of a damaged robot. Ecstatic Sunshine, a guitar duo from Baltimore, switches between shimmering, high-pitched clouds of noise and rough, chunky riffs. Religious Knives, from Brooklyn, revive the central tenet of New York noise-rock: Make it loud and make it painful. At 11:30 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $10. (Sisario)★ GLOBALFEST (Sunday) In a sense this marathon one-night showcase works against itself: Though most of its performers are usually classified as "world music," their cosmopolitan variety exposes the uselessness of that category. The dozen acts on three stages include Vinicio Capossela, an eccentric and inspired Italian songwriter who sometimes dons a Minotaur mask for dramatic effect; Fallou Dieng, a rising star of Senegalese mbalax; José Manuel Cobles (a k a Puerto Plata), an octogenarian guitarist and singer from the Dominican Republic; Toumast, a guitar group from the deserts of Niger; Samarabalouf, a French Gypsy jazz band; Crooked Still, an acoustic "newgrass" band from Boston; Pistolera, an accordion-pumping, three-fourths-female Brooklyn group that takes an indie-rock approach to regional Mexican styles like ranchera; Little Cow, a rock band from Budapest; Lo Còr de la Plana, an a cappella group from Marseilles that sings in Occitan, the traditional language of the south of France; and Chango Spasiuk, an accordionist from Argentina. At 6 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (866) 448-7849, globalfest-ny.org; $40. (Sisario)RICHIE HAVENS (Friday) An unswerving 1960s holdout, Mr. Havens is still strumming his guitar with untrammeled momentum, still singing in his grainy baritone and still bringing earnest drama out of protests and stubborn optimism. With Harry Manx. At 7:30 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $35. (Pareles)HOT 8 BRASS BAND (Saturday) One of New Orleans's best brass-and-funk groups zooms through the city on Saturday with two nighttime shows. At 8:30, Sullivan Hall, 214 Sullivan Street, near Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 477-2782, sullivanhallnyc.com; $18. At 10, Rose Live Music, 345 Grand Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-0069, liveatrose.com. (Sisario)JAYMAY (Wednesday and Thursday) A fixture in the no-cover singer-songwriter joints of Manhattan and Brooklyn for years, Jaymay, a k a Jamie Kristine Seerman, bares her lovesick heart in sweet acoustic ballads but always seems to have one hand in the instrumental kitchen sink. With an album on Blue Note due in March, she is finally primed for the big time. Wednesday at 8 p.m. and Thursday at 7 p.m., Rockwood Music Hall, 196 Allen Street, between Stanton and East Houston Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 477-4155, rockwoodmusichall.com. No cover; one drink minimum per set. (Sisario)KAYHAN KALHOR AND BROOKLYN RIDER (Monday) A veteran of Yo-Yo Ma's Silk Road Project, Kayhan Kalhor is a master of the kamancheh, an Iranian fiddle, and a noted composer. He offers a preview of his new album, "Silent City," recorded with Brooklyn Rider, an eclectic classical quartet that — small world — has also worked on the Silk Road Project. At 7:30 p.m., Brooklyn Lyceum, 227 Fourth Avenue, at President Street, Park Slope,  (866) 469-2687, brooklynlyceum.com; $20. (Sisario)★ MARS VOLTA (Monday) Mars Volta's impossibly convoluted prog-metal — arcane lyrics, dense guitar solos, restless time-signature changes — walks a line between dedicated musicality and a parody gone too far. At 7 p.m., Terminal 5, 610 West 56th Street, Clinton, (212) 260-4700, terminal5nyc.com; sold out. (Sisario)MESHELL NDEGEOCELLO (Friday) With insatiable love for a tight groove and the conscience of a confessional singer-songwriter, this longtime bassist and bandleader uses funk to propel political commentary and earnest declarations like, "I'm just a soul on the planet/Trying to do good, be good, feel good." With the Pimps of Joytime. At 9 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $27. (Sisario)★ NEW YORK GUITAR FESTIVAL (Saturday and Thursday ) The seventh installment of this impressive annual series begins on Saturday with "The Royal Albert Hall Project," a tribute to Bob Dylan's May 17, 1966, concert in Manchester, England (early bootleggers got the location wrong), featuring Jesse Harris, Laura Cantrell, Lenny Kaye, Kelly Joe Phelps, Marshall Crenshaw, Richard Julian, Jim Campilongo and others. Thursday is the first of a four-part series at Merkin Concert Hall honoring giants of country music; it begins with Jorma Kaukonen, Larry Campbell, G. E. Smith and Toby Walker playing Hank Williams's songs. Saturday at 8 p.m., Winter Garden, World Financial Center, West Street, south of Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-2600; free. Thursday at 8 p.m., 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330, $35. Information: newyorkguitarfestival.org. (Sisario)JUDITH OWEN (Saturday) A silken voice and perfect taste in jazzy, Rickie Lee Jones-ish material almost camouflages this Welsh singer's biting wit: "Checking into rehab — that's what all the sexy people do." At 10 p.m., Metropolitan Room, 34 West 22nd Street, Flatiron district, (212) 206-0440, metropolitanroom.com; $15 cover, with a two-drink minimum. (Sisario)PIERCES (Thursday) Catherine and Allison Pierce, from Birmingham, Ala., have model looks, a bag full of slithery new-wave tunes and an acerbic take on life behind the velvet ropes: "Sexy boy, girl-on-girl, ménage à trois — boring." With Landon Pigg and Paul Freeman. At 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10. (Sisario)SANDY STEWART AND BILL CHARLAP (Tuesday through Thursday) The style of this mother-son team is minimalist. Where conventional voice-and-piano duos follow a formula in which the music swells at dramatic moments, Ms. Stewart and Mr. Charlap use pauses, silences and hushed moments to bring out the interior lives of songs. They present a new show, "Make Me Rainbows," through Jan. 26. At 9 p.m., Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331, algonquinhotel.com; $65 cover; $30 minimum. (Stephen Holden) ★ ELAINE STRITCH (Friday and Saturday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Amazingly lithe at 82, Ms. Stritch revives "Elaine Stritch at Liberty," the Broadway show she wrote with John Lahr that won her a special Tony Award in 2002. This salty, autobiographical reminiscence, marinated in gin, may be the ultimate example of amusing after-dinner remarks, sprinkled with songs and a few dance steps, that transcend the occasion. (Through Jan. 19.) At 8 p.m., Café Carlyle, at the Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com; $125 and $175; dinner is required. (Holden) ★ ALLEN TOUSSAINT (Friday and Saturday) Mr. Toussaint, the great New Orleans musical statesman,  has been a frequent sight in New York over the last year or so, playing Sunday brunch gigs at Joe's Pub for Hurricane Katrina relief. He makes his Blue Note debut. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 cover at tables; $20 at the bar. (Sisario)K T TUNSTALL (Monday) Like her breakout hit from 2005, "Black Horse and the Cherry Tree," the songs on Ms. Tunstall's strong second album, "Drastic Fantastic" (Virgin), set stories of romantic doubt and hesitation to a ringing, catchy folk-rock shaded with bluesy dissonance. At 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; sold out. (Sisario) ★ WORDLESS MUSIC (Wednesday and Thursday) Already a series to watch, with its smart programming of free spirits from the fringes of pop and avant-garde classical music, Wordless Music has a must-see next week with the American premiere of "Popcorn Superhet Receiver" by Jonny Greenwood, better known as the polymath guitarist of Radiohead. Also on the program: John Adams's "Christian Zeal and Activity" and Gavin Bryars's "Sinking of the Titanic." Brad Lubman conducts a 50-piece orchestra. At 8 p.m., Church of St. Paul the Apostle, Columbus Avenue at 60th Street, wordlessmusic.org;  $30. (Sisario) ★ WU-TANG CLAN (Saturday and Thursday) There is still plenty of drama with New York's most influential and conceptually brilliant hip-hop crew (after Public Enemy). The Internet was aflutter last year over complaints from within the Wu camp that its latest album, "8 Diagrams" (SRC/Universal Motown), was an inferior rush job. Critical opinion is divided, but no one doubts the group's continued ability to surprise. Saturday at 8:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; $50 (sold out on Saturday). (Sisario)
