Rick Rubin is listening. A song by a new band called the Gossip is playing, and he is concentrating. He appears to be in a trance. His eyes are tightly closed and he is swaying back and forth to the beat, trying at once to hear what is right and wrong about the music. Rubin, who resembles a medium-size bear with a long, gray beard, is curled into the corner of a tufted velvet couch in the library of a house he owns but where he no longer lives. This three-story 1923 Spanish villa steeped in music history — Johnny Cash recorded in the basement studio; Jakob Dylan is recording a solo album there now — is used by Rubin for meetings. And ever since May, when he officially became co-head of Columbia Records, Rubin has been having nearly constant meetings. Beginning in 1984, when he started Def Jam Recordings, until his more recent occupation as a career-transforming, chart-topping, Grammy Award-winning producer for dozens of artists, as diverse as the Dixie Chicks, Slayer, Red Hot Chili Peppers and Neil Diamond, Rubin, who is 44, has never gone to an office of any kind. One of his conditions for taking the job at Sony, which owns Columbia, was that he wouldn't be required to have a desk or a phone in any of the corporate outposts. That wasn't a problem: Columbia didn't want Rubin to punch a clock. It wanted him to save the company. And just maybe the record business.What that means, most of all, is that the company wants him to listen. It is Columbia's belief that Rubin will hear the answers in the music — that he will find the solution to its ever-increasing woes. The mighty music business is in free fall — it has lost control of radio; retail outlets like Tower Records have shut down; MTV rarely broadcasts music videos; and the once lucrative album market has been overshadowed by downloaded singles, which mainly benefits Apple. "The music business, as a whole, has lost its faith in content," David Geffen, the legendary music mogul, told me recently. "Only 10 years ago, companies wanted to make records, presumably good records, and see if they sold. But panic has set in, and now it's no longer about making music, it's all about how to sell music. And there's no clear answer about how to fix that problem. But I still believe that the top priority at any record company has to be coming up with great music. And for that reason, Sony was very smart to hire Rick."Though Rubin maintains that his intention is simply to hear music with the fresh ears of a true fan, he has built his reputation on the simultaneously mystical and entirely decisive way he listens to a song. As the Gossip, which is fronted by a large, raucous woman named Beth Ditto, shouts to a stop, Rubin opens his eyes and nods yes. This is the first new band signed to Columbia that he has been enthralled by, but he is not yet sure how to organize the Gossip's future. "Let's hear something else," Rubin says to Kevin Kusatsu, who would, at any other record company, be called an A & R executive. (Traditionally, A & R executives spot, woo, recruit and oversee the talent of a record company.) "We don't have any titles at the new Columbia," Rubin explains, as Kusatsu, the first person Rubin hired, slips a disc out of its sleeve. "I don't want to create a new hierarchy to replace the old hierarchy."Rubin, wearing his usual uniform of loose khaki pants and billowing white T-shirt, his sunglasses in his pocket, his feet bare, fingers a string of lapis lazuli Buddhist prayer beads, believed to bring wisdom to the wearer. Since Rubin's beard and hair nearly cover his face, his voice, which is soft and reassuring, becomes that much more vivid. He seems to be one with the room, which is lined in floor-to-ceiling books, most of which are of a spiritual nature, whether about Buddhism, the Bible or New Age quests for enlightenment. The library and the house are filled with religious iconography mixed with mementos from the world of pop. A massive brass Buddha is flanked by equally enormous speakers; vintage cardboard cutouts of John, Paul, George and Ringo circa "Help!" are placed around a multiarmed statue of Vishnu. On a low table, there are crystals and an old RadioShack cassette recorder that Rubin uses to listen to demo tapes; a framed photo of Jim Morrison stares at a crystal ball. In Rubin's world, music and spirituality collide."That's why they call him a guru," Natalie Maines, the lead singer of the Dixie Chicks, explained to me in August, calling from her home in Los Angeles. Maines, who has been with the label since 1997, first worked with Rubin in 2004. "At first, I didn't know if I was down with all that guru stuff. I thought, We're making a record — I don't want to be converted. But Rick's spirituality has mostly to do with his own sense of self. When it comes to the music, he's so sure of his opinion that you become sure of his opinion, too. And isn't that what gurus do? They know how to say the right things at the right time and get the best out of you."Kusatsu, who has elaborate tattoos on both forearms and a match stuck behind his ear, puts the CD into Rubin's wireless system. This is the fourth male singer-songwriter with an acoustic guitar that Rubin has heard today. The music is heartfelt, spare, poetic. "There were a lot of girls in the audience," Kusatsu says as the track begins. Rubin closes his eyes and gently rocks back and forth. His hands are resting on his stomach, and he seems to be almost meditating. "Everything I do," Rubin told me earlier, "whether it's producing, or signing an artist, always starts with the songs. When I'm listening, I'm looking for a balance that you could see in anything. Whether it's a great painting or a building or a sunset. There's just a natural human element to a great song that feels immediately satisfying. I like the song to create a mood."He also seeks a melody. As a kid growing up in Lido Beach, on New York's Long Island, Rubin loved the Beatles. "I never really liked the Stones," he said. "Although, I loved the Monkees — they had all the best songwriters." Through his passion for the Beatles, he became fascinated by the seductive, addictive power of songs. From the first hip-hop records he produced for L L Cool J and the Beastie Boys, he insisted on classic song structure. "Before Def Jam, hip-hop records were typically really long, and they rarely had a hook," he continued. "Those songs didn't deliver in the way the Beatles did. By making our rap records sound more like pop songs, we changed the form. And we sold a lot of records." The Beastie Boys' "Licensed to Ill" (released in 1986) went on to sell what was then an astonishing four million plus records; earlier that year, "Walk This Way," which combined Run-D.M.C. and Aerosmith, was the first crossover rap single and revitalized Aerosmith's career. Rubin masterminded both.Whenever he agrees to produce an album, Rubin scrutinizes the songs before going into the studio. Currently, he is producing records for the hard rock band Metallica, the nerd power-pop band Weezer (it is part of his deal with Columbia that he can produce albums for acts that are not signed to the label) and the legendary Neil Diamond. At the moment, Metallica is touring in Europe, Weezer is writing a new batch of songs and Diamond has just started in the studio. Rubin works slowly — it can take him years to finish an album. "A lot of that is because of the songs," Rubin explained. "I try to get the artist to feel like they are writing songs for the ages rather than songs for an album. As they write, they come over and play the songs for me. For some reason, most people will write 10 songs and think, That's enough for a record, I'm done. When they play the songs for me, invariably the last two songs they've written are the best. I'll then say, 'You have two songs, go back and write eight more.' "His responses are instant, specific and constructively definitive. "He doesn't even take notes," Maines recalled. "He listens with his eyes closed, presses 'pause' and then says, 'You need another chorus,' or 'There isn't enough of a bridge.' He's really precise, and you go back to work." In the early Metallica sessions, Rubin has been exacting about different drum sounds. "Lars" — Ulrich, the drummer — "will play two things for me, and I'll say, 'This one is great and that one is terrible,' " Rubin recalled. "Lars will say: 'How do you know? They both sound good to me.' Well, I just know. The right sound reaches its hand out and finds its way. So much of what I do is just being present and listening for that right sound."Back in the library, the singer-songwriter's demo is ending. Rubin opens his eyes, blinks and says to Kusatsu: "We may have found one. Does he have any other songs I can hear?" While Kusatsu cues up the next sampling, Rubin texts an assistant on his BlackBerry. Within minutes, a chocolate protein drink is brought to him. As Rubin sips, he listens to the next track — a derivative, meandering song that drones like early Dylan without the lyric sophistication. With his eyes closed, Rubin begins to shake his head slowly. He looks disappointed. "And you wonder why people don't buy CDs anymore," Rubin says. "One song is great and the other is. . . . "His voice trails off. As a producer or the head of a small independent label, Rubin could afford to be very particular. But Columbia, which is the home of established stars like Bruce, Beyoncé, Bob, Billy and Barbra, desperately needs a jolt of the new. It has also been years since Rubin worked with an artist who is not yet established. Since producing System of a Down in 1998, he has focused on reinvigorating the careers of Johnny Cash and producing records for well-known musicians like Tom Petty, U2 and Justin Timberlake. One of the biggest challenges of the Columbia job is to find unsigned artists and help chart their course."I don't know about this guy," Rubin says diplomatically. Kusatsu nods. "I don't want to make a decision for the wrong reason," Rubin continues. "The most important thing we have to do now is get the art right. So many of the decisions at these companies have not been about the music. They sign artists for the wrong reasons — because they think somebody else wants them or if they need to have a record out by a certain date. That old way of doing things is obsolete, but luckily, fear is making the record companies less arrogant. They're more open to ideas. So, what's important now is to find music that's timeless. I still believe that if an artist gains the belief of the listener, then anything is possible." Rubin pauses and looks at Kusatsu. "What else can I hear?" he asks.This summer, Columbia Records began a program called Big Red. The company invited 20 college students from Harvard, Penn State and the University of Miami to work on various music projects. The interns concentrated mostly on the digital marketing and promotions departments in Columbia's offices in Midtown Manhattan, which are on Madison Avenue in a granite skyscraper designed by Philip Johnson.At the end of their paid internships, the students took part in focus groups that were closely observed by Steve Barnett, Rubin's co-head at the label, and Mark DiDia, whom Rubin brought in as head of operations, as well as by other Columbia executives. The focus groups may have been the real point of Big Red — Barnett and the New York executives, especially those who had been at Sony for years, wanted to try to take the pulse of the elusive music audience. "The Big Red focus groups were both depressing and informative, and they confirmed what I — and Rick — already knew," DiDia told me afterward. "The kids all said that a) no one listens to the radio anymore, b) they mostly steal music, but they don't consider it stealing, and c) they get most of their music from iTunes on their iPod. They told us that MySpace is over, it's just not cool anymore; Facebook is still cool, but that might not last much longer; and the biggest thing in their life is word of mouth. That's how they hear about music, bands, everything."Few of the kids knew that record companies participate only in the profits from records — that they derive no income from a band's merchandising or touring revenues. And they all thought that the Columbia logo stood for something prestigious, except in the hip-hop world. There it was deemed too commercial and corporate, but anywhere else it still represented a kind of impressive imprimatur. "Which was good news," DiDia continued. "It means we still have a brand that commands respect."His insecurity on this point reflects the trepidation that is consuming the music business. Seemingly overnight, the entire industry is collapsing. Sales figures on top-selling CDs are about 30 percent lower than they were a year ago, and the usual remedies aren't available. Since radio is no longer a place to push a single, record companies have turned to television and movies. "High School Musical," which originated with a Disney Channel television show, was the top-selling album of 2006, and not only has "American Idol," with its 30-million-plus audience, created best-selling singers like Kelly Clarkson and Chris Daughtry, but an appearance on the show can also boost sales. When Jennifer Lopez performed on "American Idol," it was considered worth noting that her album "Como Ama Una Mujer," already out for four weeks, dipped only 7 percent rather than falling by the usual double digits. More impressively, songs that are heard on popular shows like "Grey's Anatomy" become instantly desirable. When the Columbia artist Brandi Carlile's song "The Story" was featured on the ABC show, it posted a 15 percent jump in sales and was downloaded 19,000 times in one week. Before being heard on the show, the song had been available for nearly two months without any notable interest."Until very recently," Rubin told me over lunch at Hugo's, a health-conscious restaurant in Hollywood, "there were a handful of channels in the music business that the gatekeepers controlled. They were radio, Tower Records, MTV, certain mainstream press like Rolling Stone. That's how people found out about new things. Every record company in the industry was built to work that model. There was a time when if you had something that wasn't so good, through muscle and lack of other choices, you could push that not very good product through those channels. And that's how the music business functioned for 50 years. Well, the world has changed. And the industry has not."Steve Barnett, who is 55 and was the sole head of Columbia until he agreed to split his role with Rubin, was president of Epic Records, also a division of Sony, until 2005 and was well aware of the seismic shifts in the business. Barnett's corner office on the 25th floor of the Sony building is like a miniversion of the Hard Rock Cafe — autographed guitars belonging to Jeff Beck, Korn and Angus Young from AC/DC rest in their stands, and the walls are covered with vintage posters from the celebrated New York rock venue the Fillmore East. To the right of Barnett's large desk, above the framed Johnny Cash portrait, is a sign that reads, "Your Faith Needs to Be Greater Than Your Fear." "I have always believed that," Barnett told me in mid-August, "but it seems particularly relevant at the moment."Barnett, who is English, is a sharp counterpoint to Rubin. He lives with his wife and two of their four sons in Connecticut. He has neatly parted sandy brown hair, and on the day we met, he was dressed in a blue button-down shirt, tan slacks and Gucci loafers with dark socks. Barnett is polite, careful, aware of his corporate status. Yet he supported recruiting Rubin. "My wife's father is Dick Vermeil, the former coach of the St. Louis Rams," Barnett explained. "My sons would go to training camp, and when Marshall Faulk started playing for the team, they called me and said, 'Not only is this guy a great player, he makes everyone around him better.' Of course, the Rams went on to win the Super Bowl. I think Rick Rubin is our Marshall Faulk. I knew he would change the culture here."By the time Barnett first approached Rubin about coming to Columbia, Rubin had already decided that he would have nothing more to do with Columbia Records. This was because of the company's handling of the Rubin-produced Neil Diamond record "12 Songs" in 2005. Diamond was a hero of Rubin's, and he spent two years working on the album, persuading Diamond to record acoustically, something he hadn't done since the '60s."The CD debuted at No. 4," Rubin told me at Hugo's, still sounding upset. "It was the highest debut of Neil's career, off to a great start. But Columbia — it was some kind of corporate thing — had put spyware on the CD. That kept people from copying it, but it also somehow recorded information about whoever bought the record. The spyware became public knowledge, and people freaked out. There were some lawsuits filed, and the CD was recalled by Columbia. Literally pulled from stores. We came out on a Tuesday, by the following week the CD was not available. Columbia released it again in a month, but we never recovered. Neil was furious, and I vowed never to make another album with Columbia."But when Barnett flew out to Los Angeles to discuss the job with Rubin, Rubin was intrigued. "I felt like I could be a force for good," he explained. "In the past, I've tried to protect artists from the label, and now my job would also be to protect the label from itself. So many of the decisions at these companies are not about the music. They are shortsighted and desperate. For so long, the record industry had control. But now that monopoly has ended, they don't know what to do. I thought it would be an interesting challenge."As a kind of test, Rubin made some unusual demands. "Oh, God, I would have liked to have heard those negotiations," Natalie Maines exclaimed. "Rick knows what he's worth, and I can just hear him telling them, 'You might never see me, I may never wear shoes, you're not the boss of me.' And I'm sure they were saying, 'Whatever you want, Mr. Rubin.' I was surprised Sony made such a smart decision: someone who knows music should be running the company."In addition to his "never wearing a suit, never traveling, never going to an office" demands, Rubin also suggested (strongly) that Columbia become the first major record company to go green and abolish plastic jewel boxes for all its CDs. "They thought about it and agreed," Rubin said. "And that made me think they would listen to me. It was also a turning point in terms of how big my reach could be. In the past, I would not normally have access to that kind of sweeping change. At Columbia, I'm able to operate on a much larger scale."That was in late April. By August, Rubin still sounded optimistic, but a weariness had crept into his voice. "It's a big ship to turn around," he told me in the Hollywood Hills house. Simon and Garfunkel was playing in the background and Rubin was padding through the templelike rooms. "Columbia is stuck in the dark ages. I have great confidence that we will have the best record company in the industry, but the reality is, in today's world, we might have the best dinosaur. Until a new model is agreed upon and rolling, we can be the best at the existing paradigm, but until the paradigm shifts, it's going to be a declining business. This model is done."While Columbia has made some small changes in its organizational structure, it has not instigated the kind of extensive alterations that Rubin says are crucial to the salvation of the business. Barnett is promoting the division at Columbia that sells music directly to TV, so that a network or cable show can introduce an artist to audiences the way radio once did. At Rubin's suggestion, he has also set up a "word of mouth" department, which will probably employ some members of the Big Red focus group along with dozens of other 20-somethings. The "word of mouth" department will function as a publicity-promotional arm of the company, spreading commissioned buzz through chat rooms across the planet and through old-fashioned human interaction. "They tell all their friends about a band," Barnett explained. "Their job is to create interest."Rubin has a bigger idea. To combat the devastating impact of file sharing, he, like others in the music business (Doug Morris and Jimmy Iovine at Universal, for instance), says that the future of the industry is a subscription model, much like paid cable on a television set. "You would subscribe to music," Rubin explained, as he settled on the velvet couch in his library. "You'd pay, say, $19.95 a month, and the music will come anywhere you'd like. In this new world, there will be a virtual library that will be accessible from your car, from your cellphone, from your computer, from your television. Anywhere. The iPod will be obsolete, but there would be a Walkman-like device you could plug into speakers at home. You'll say, 'Today I want to listen to ... Simon and Garfunkel,' and there they are. The service can have demos, bootlegs, concerts, whatever context the artist wants to put out. And once that model is put into place, the industry will grow 10 times the size it is now."From Napster to the iPod, the music business has been wrong about how much it can dictate to its audience. "Steve Jobs understood Napster better than the record business did," David Geffen told me. "IPods made it easy for people to share music, and Apple took a big percentage of the business that once belonged to the record companies. The subscription model is the only way to save the music business. If music is easily available at a price of five or six dollars a month, then nobody will steal it."For this model to be effective, all the record companies will have to agree. "It's like getting the heads of the five families together," said Mark DiDia, referencing "The Godfather." "It will be very difficult, but what else are we going to do?"Rubin sees no other solution. "Either all the record companies will get together or the industry will fall apart and someone like Microsoft will come in and buy one of the companies at wholesale and do what needs to be done," he said. "The future technology companies will either wait for the record companies to smarten up, or they'll let them sink until they can buy them for 10 cents on the dollar and own the whole thing."Given the competition among record companies, the subscription model is bound to be tricky to organize and implement. One problem with iTunes is that, with some exceptions, all the songs are priced equally — a Justin Timberlake smash costs the same as an Al Jolson classic. Since a listener would, ideally, pay more for a Top 10 hit, that egalitarian system costs record companies potential millions of dollars. The opponents of the subscription model feel that making all music by all artists available for one flat fee will end up diminishing the overall revenue stream. They would also have to pool their talent, which is difficult for companies that have spent decades fighting over who signs with whom to accept. "There would have to be a new economic plan," Geffen explained. "And it would have to be equitable, depending on the popularity of the artists."Steve Barnett is nervous about the subscription model. "Smart people have told me if the subscription model is not done correctly," he said, "it will be the final nail in our coffin. I've heard both sides of the argument, and I'm not convinced it's the solution to our problems. Rick wants to be a hero immediately. In his mind, you flick a switch and it's done. It doesn't work like that."Barnett has other ideas, which he is discussing with Rubin. For instance, asking Columbia artists to give the record company up to 50 percent of their touring, merchandising and online revenue. This is unprecedented — even successful artists like the Dixie Chicks make a large percentage of their income from concerts and T-shirts. "Artists should never give that money up," Natalie Maines told me. "The companies are all scrambling because of the Internet, and they will screw the artist to meet their bottom line. I can't imagine Rick will go along with that."Rubin won't say — he'd rather concentrate on honing the new model for the industry. "I don't want to waste time," he said, sounding a little frustrated. "The existing people will either get smart, which is a question mark. Or new people will understand what a resource the music business is and change it without us." Rubin paused. "I don't want to watch that happen."One sunny day in June, Rick Rubin was trying to decide where the new Columbia Records headquarters in Los Angeles should be located. He may not want to go to an office himself, but he still recognizes the influence that a workplace can have on a staff. "I told the corporate Sony people that we have to get out of our old space in Los Angeles as quickly as possible," Rubin said as he disembarked from his Range Rover, which was parked outside a large, one-story former factory that now functions as a sound stage. "The Sony people thought I was insane. I'm also trying to get them to move out of their offices in New York. That space is tainted with the old way. And it's not an artist-friendly place — they search you when you walk in."Rubin, who was wearing, as usual, khaki cargo pants and a white T-shirt, was trailed by two architects who had flown in from Manhattan for this meeting. He discovered these architects, Dominic Kozerski and Enrico Bonetti, when he saw a chair they designed in a magazine layout. Rubin loves research. He's always on a quest to find just the right thing, whether it be a book or a building. Recently, he hunted down the brand of water that claims to have the greatest level of purity (Ice Age); he pored over architectural manuals to determine what kind of hinge would have been used in 1923 (for his house); and when Johnny Cash was ailing, Rubin discovered a kinesiologist whom Cash credited with extending his life. And so on. Rubin has always been passionate, even compulsive, about his interests."From the time I was 9 years old, I loved magic," Rubin recalled as he walked around the cavernous loftlike space. "I was an only child, and I think that had a big impact on me. I always had grown-up friends even though I was a little kid. I would take the train from Lido Beach into Manhattan, and I'd hang out in magic shops. When I was 14, I had magician friends who were 60. I learned a lot from them — I still think about magic all the time. I always think about how things work, the mechanics of a situation — that's the nature of being a magician."In high school, around 1980, Rubin started listening to a mix of heavy metal and punk rock. (He recalls buying the Germs' record "GI" and "Back in Black" by AC/DC on the same day.) "I saw the Ramones play every week," he said. "I was the only punk in my high school." Rubin paused. "I've always been an outsider. When I did magic, I was the only kid. When I worked with Johnny Cash, I was completely out of place in Nashville. And when I started Def Jam, I was the only white guy in the hip-hop world."Although Rubin's parents — his father was a shoe wholesaler, and "my mother's job was me" — wanted him to be a lawyer, he had other ideas. In 1983, while he was attending N.Y.U., he borrowed $5,000 from his parents and recorded "It's Yours" by T La Rock and Jazzy Jay, a 12-inch single that became a local dance hit. Rubin then invented a label, calling his company Def Jam ("Def" meaning great, and "Jam" meaning music), and ran the business out of his dorm room. "The clerk at the front desk handled all the shipping," Rubin recalled.Russell Simmons, who was then a hip-hop producer, loved "It's Yours" when he heard it on the radio. "I thought for sure that Rick was black," Simmons said. In 1984, a 16-year-old named L L Cool J (Ladies Love Cool James) sent a demo tape to Rubin's dorm room/Def Jam. "He was much better than anything else I heard," Rubin recalled. "And he still is. 'I Need a Beat,' L L's first single, was the real birth of Def Jam." Rubin did not release the track right away — he tightened up the structure, editing the rhymes so they more closely resembled verses in a song. The result is a spare, clean sound, rather than the endless repetitions of most early rap. "I thought the record would do well, and I asked Russell to be my partner at Def Jam. I did all the work from my dorm, and he did the promotion. Russell was five years older, and he was established. By myself, I was just a kid making records. He gave me credibility.""I Need a Beat" sold 100,000 copies, and in the next year, Def Jam released seven more 12-inch records, selling a total of about 300,000 units. The major labels had ignored rap, dismissing it as a regional fad, but they took notice of Def Jam. CBS offered Rubin and Simmons $600,000 to pick four acts a year, a kind of finder's fee. "I was 20," Rubin said. "I sent a Xerox of the check to my parents. That's when this stopped being a hobby. At that point, I wanted to live the life of an artist."By 1987, Rubin had already discovered the Beastie Boys, three upper-middle-class guys from New York City who could rap. The trio's anthemic hit, "(You Gotta) Fight for Your Right (to Party!)," which was produced by Rubin, was an instant classic: the rhythms of the words form a hook that circles and loops around your brain and will not leave. The Beasties' debut album, "Licensed to Ill," was the first rap album to go to No. 1 on the Billboard chart. "And we were still in the dorms," George Drakoulias, a successful producer who worked with Rubin for a decade, told me. "Rick didn't want to leave. He got college credits for running the record company. He stayed until he graduated. And by then, he and Russell were fighting over the direction of the company."Each had a different idea of which bands Def Jam should produce. The partnership fell apart during renegotiations for their contract with CBS. Simmons wanted to get the biggest monetary advance possible from CBS, while Rubin wanted to bet on Def Jam, take a small amount of money for the sake of independence and make most of the cash on the back-end profits. They couldn't agree, and Def Jam was split in two, an arrangement that took nearly three years to finalize.When things went sour, Rubin flew to Los Angeles to work on the soundtrack for the film "Less Than Zero." "I never really moved here," Rubin said now, still walking around the former factory space. "I never packed and moved. But I never left Los Angeles, even though I hadn't planned to stay." He lived in the Chateau Marmont for nine months and started a new record company, Def American. Rubin changed gears: he signed the hard rock bands Slayer and Danzig and gave a record deal to the misogynist comic Andrew Dice Clay. "At every stage of my career, there have always been people telling me not to do whatever it is that I'm doing," Rubin said. "After my initial success in rap, I started making rock records, and people said, 'Why would you do this?' I made a comedy album, and they said, 'Why this?' Now people ask me, 'Why do you want to do this Columbia job?' It's always the same answer: 'I've always liked doing the stuff that I like.' I just like good music or comedy or whatever it is, and now I have the chance to bring that to a big record company. I have no training, no technical skill — it's only this ability to listen and try to coach the artist to be the best they can from the perspective of a fan."The architects were still daydreaming about where to put the lobby and the conference room in the factory-turned-soundstage when Rubin suggested that they drive over to another potential site for the new Columbia offices. They piled into his Range Rover, which was being driven by Nino Molina, one of his assistants. In the front seat, Rubin turned on the satellite radio and Sinatra's "Fly Me to the Moon" flooded the car. "Where we are going could not be more different than this spot," Rubin told the architects. "In a way, this factory is like a cool, old vintage Mustang convertible and the next building we're seeing is a Rolls-Royce. In the end, they are both great and they probably cost the same money, but they are completely opposite in style." Rubin fiddled with the radio. "Every Picture Tells a Story" by Rod Stewart replaced Sinatra. "They couldn't be more different, but both work," Rubin continued.We drove east until we arrived at the former CAA building on Wilshire Boulevard in Beverly Hills. I. M. Pei designed this curvy, cream-colored travertine structure, and the most dominant feature of the space is its vast, soaring, three-story lobby. "This is a significant building," Rubin said. "How often do you get a chance to reinvent a landmark? Los Angeles doesn't have too many marquee buildings, and this is one of them."The two spaces — one raw and full of promise and the other established and perfect for reinvention — are a neat metaphor for Rubin's divergent music tastes. "I've always been attracted to both new stuff and older stuff," he said as he opened the door to a plush screening room. "When I came to Los Angeles and started producing more, that became clearer to me."At Def American, Rubin concentrated on a harder rock sound: Slayer's "Reign in Blood," which is considered to be a heavy metal classic, or the Geto Boys, whose rap song "Mind of a Lunatic" depicted vivid scenes of necrophilia and murder. "I just couldn't put out a record about sex with dead bodies and cutting off women's breasts," said David Geffen, whose company Geffen Records was the distributor of Def American. "I begged Rick not to put out the Geto Boys. In the end, I lost. He left and went to Warner Brothers."Although Rubin claims that Geffen fired him, he stood by the Geto Boys: "I thought the art was good. As a fan, the Geto Boys were thrilling in the same way that a horror movie might be thrilling." In 1993, Rubin saw that the word "def" was now in dictionaries, and he decided to change the name of his company. Inspired by a documentary he'd seen about the hippie movement, Rubin held a formal funeral for Def. "When advertisers and the fashion world co-opted the image of hippies, a group of the original hippies in San Francisco literally buried the image of the hippie," Rubin explained. "When 'def' went from street lingo to mainstream, it defeated its purpose."The funeral was lavish. The Rev. Al Sharpton was flown in from New York to deliver the eulogy, the Amazing Kreskin performed and Rubin purchased a cemetery plot and engraved headstone. The death of Def also marked a change in Rubin's career. He had never signed what he calls "grown-up artists," and he wanted to work with someone with enormous talent whose career had been eclipsed. "The first person I thought of was Johnny Cash," Rubin said now. "He was a little like this building — already a legend, but ripe for something different. I knew I could do something great with him."In many ways, the Cash phase of Rubin's life, which lasted 10 years and produced five albums, has overshadowed all his other accomplishments. Rubin had worked intensively with artists before. When he produced the Red Hot Chili Peppers in 1991, he helped reinvent their sound by persuading them to incorporate melody and a more lyrical approach in their songwriting. The Chili Peppers defined their music narrowly — as rap infused with funk — and Rubin imagined a different quality. "My job was to break down those boundaries," he explained. "No band has to fit into a little box. I saw the Chili Peppers as being like the Beach Boys in some ways. They represented Los Angeles, a place of dreams." Anthony Kiedis, the lead singer, showed Rubin his notebooks, and the producer homed in on a poem about drugs and alienation called "Under the Bridge." He persuaded Kiedis to set the words to music, and the resulting song was a career-altering hit for the band.Rubin installed the Peppers in a mansion in the Hollywood Hills that was rumored to be Harry Houdini's former home. It actually wasn't, but the house did have secret passageways, and the rumors of its history lingered. A studio was built, and the Peppers moved in with Rubin's personal chef at their service. As he always does when he produces a record, Rubin came and went. "I do not know how to work a board. I don't turn knobs. I have no technical ability whatsoever," he said. "But I'm there when they need me to be there. My primary asset is I know when I like something or not. It always comes down to taste. I'm not there to hold their hands and baby-sit, but I'm there for any key creative decisions."And yet it was different with Cash. While Cash was an excellent songwriter, Rubin handpicked rock songs like "Hurt" by Nine Inch Nails, "Personal Jesus" by Depeche Mode and "Rusty Cage" by Soundgarden for Cash to reinterpret. (He also suggested "Addicted to Love" by Robert Palmer, but that didn't work.) He was much more involved with every aspect of the production — from the choice of songs to the arrangements to the videos — than he had been with any other artist. Rubin and Cash also had a deep spiritual kinship: during the final months of Cash's life, they took communion together every day, even though Rubin, who was born Jewish and now sees himself as not having any specific religious orientation, should not be eligible for the holy sacraments. Even after Cash's death, Rubin would close his eyes and hear Cash's voice as he said the benediction. "It was like hearing a song that you love," Rubin said. "He was there with me."When Cash was in Los Angeles, he often stayed at Rubin's house. His bedroom, with its view of the city, was on the third floor, and Cash would take the elevator down to the recording studio in the basement. "I was always aware of how important Cash was," Rubin said. "But no one under 40 who didn't live in the South knew much about Johnny Cash besides a few hits and his name." What seems so clear now was not obvious when Rubin began working with Cash — it was risky to reinvent a living legend for a new generation.After Cash's death, Rubin was searching for a challenge with an even higher degree of difficulty, a greater test for his powers of listening. The Columbia job is a different kind of reclamation project, but Rubin knows that, just possibly, he could restore an entire institution to greatness. "I can imagine people coming up with brilliant, creative ideas here," Rubin told the architects as they finished their tour of the building. "But Sony has to agree. I'm not sure they realize that they are selling art. Right now they could be selling any product. That's why we have to move — we're in the art business."For the last two years, Rubin has lived in a house in Malibu that overlooks the ocean. In a way, this house is a return to his childhood in Lido Beach, where he spent his days near the water. "It's inspirational to live out here," Rubin said as he settled into a lounge chair with linen cushions facing the sea. "You feel the rhythm of the planet more keenly. I am never this aware of sunrise and sunset when I'm in town. The daily changes of nature at the beach can be deeply affecting."Rubin has many of his business meetings here now. The '70s architecture of the house is nondescript, but the views from every room are spectacular. There's an old, elaborately carved grand piano in the living room alongside an enormous four-poster brass bed with a striking white linen canopy. When I arrived, Amanda Santos, Rubin's fiancée, was having a private yoga session. While we sat on the terrace, a small Yorkshire terrier named Henry ran between the living room and Rubin's lap. Despite a state-of-the-art sound system, there was no music playing. Only the sound of the waves.All this Zen calm notwithstanding, Rubin, who was drinking ginger tea, was working. "Do you know about Paul Potts?" he asked as he went to the kitchen to get his laptop. "You have to see this. It totally blew my mind." Rubin found the proper link and turned the screen to face me. The clip was from a British show called "Britain's Got Talent," a version of "American Idol." Despite its popularity, Rubin has never seen "American Idol," and he had never heard of Simon Cowell, who is a judge on both programs."This is insane," Rubin said enthusiastically as the clip began. In the video, an ordinary-looking middle-aged man waited nervously backstage. When he faced the judges, he told them he worked at a mobile-phone store and wanted to sing opera. The studio audience looked annoyed — they clearly wanted to hear a pop song — and the judges were cold and dismissive. No one expected anything remarkable from this dull-looking, forgettable guy.But then Paul Potts sang — "Nessun dorma" from "Turandot." He had an improbably beautiful voice. "Where does that come from?" Rubin said as he watched. Tears were rolling down his cheeks. "I can't look at this without crying," he said. "His voice is so beautiful." When Potts finished his song, Cowell said, "I thought you were absolutely fantastic." The studio audience roared with approval, and Potts beamed."It's August now — that show was eight weeks ago," Rubin said. "In England, Paul Potts is already gigantic, but we are going to launch him in America. This just blew my mind."No one could have predicted that one of the first new Columbia artists to excite Rick Rubin would have been a would-be opera singer from a televised talent contest. "I certainly didn't expect his response to be so positive," said Steve Barnett, who originally brought Paul Potts to Rubin's attention. "I was surprised and pleased that he wanted to jump on it."Rubin has an immediate plan for Potts — he wants to test the powers of his "word of mouth" department. "I want to see if we can create interest without there being a record to buy," he said. "I've told our whole staff to send it to everyone, to tell everyone, to mention it everywhere. I want to get Paul Potts out to the world." Rubin stopped for a moment. "Although, if someone tells you how great this is, it's not as moving. It's the element of surprise that makes you interested in Paul Potts: he looks so bland, and then he sings so well. If you expect him to be great, will the clip still be great?"The question cannot be answered. A word-of-mouth campaign, like so many possible remedies for the ills of the record business, feels forced. "I just don't know how else people will see Paul Potts," Rubin said. "And I'm really glad I saw him." He paused and looked out at the surf. "I know this sounds hard to believe, but I never had any expectations of success," he said finally. "I knew what I liked, and I didn't really care if anyone else liked it. I still never assume that anyone will like anything. But I can't imagine that they won't, either.""Sam Cooke built this," Neil Diamond said as he greeted Rubin at ArchAngel Studios in West Hollywood on a gray afternoon in late July. "I bought the place around 30 years ago. It's not open to the public, but I let Rick use it sometimes."Rubin smiled. "I think the Doors made their first demo here," he said as he followed Diamond down the hall, past the walls of gold and platinum Neil Diamond records, past the framed album covers and into a glass recording studio. "And now, Neil."For the past two weeks, Rubin and Diamond had been working on new material, and Diamond wanted Rubin to hear some songs that were near completion. "You know, initially I stalked Neil," Rubin said as an engineer prepared the first track. "Yes," said Diamond, who is trim and was wearing a suede baseball hat, dark shirt and jeans. "At first, it was a little scary — I didn't know what to make of it."A classic Neil Diamond song about the renewing power of a relationship boomed from the speakers. Diamond looked down, a little self-conscious. Rubin, eyes closed, was seated at the engineer's console with his arms resting lightly on the mixing board. When the song ended, Rubin paused, opened his eyes and said: "You really caught a good mood on that. It lived for the first time." Diamond nodded. They discussed the merits of adding strings or changing the structure so that the bridge didn't sound so much like a chorus. "Some strings might inspire you," Rubin said. "And maybe some amplification near the end. It needs a little polish."Diamond agreed, and four more tracks were played for Rubin's opinion. He was encouraging and specific — "a little percussion element could go here," he said. Or, "Let's shorten that rolling piano." After about an hour, Rubin hugged Diamond goodbye. They agreed to reconnect in a month, after he'd written some more songs. "I'll settle in without distraction," Diamond promised. "And then I'll be in touch."Rubin headed back to his Range Rover. In the car, he said he had some live footage of the Gossip that he wanted to show me. "I saw the group at the Troubadour, and they blew my mind," he said. "It was the best show I've seen in five years. Afterward, I met with the band. They felt stressed, and they were having trouble writing songs. The energy in the room when they were performing was so intense, and I'm not even sure how we'd get it to feel like that in the studio. So we decided to record a live show during their European tour, and we're going to release a DVD of the live album as their first release."Rubin looked pleased. Beth Ditto, the lead singer of the Gossip, is exactly what he has been looking for since he took this job at Columbia: she is an outsize personality in an outsize body with a Joplin-esque, bluesy voice. Ditto is the kind of artist Rubin loves — unique, ambitious and open to guidance. "For a band like the Gossip," Rubin continued, "the support of a record company like Columbia is still really important. I grew up in the independent music business, and you still really need the muscle of the majors. A record company call can still get you heard like nobody else."Rubin paused. "That's the magic of the business," he said. "It's all doom and gloom, but then you go to a Gossip show or hear Neil in the studio and you remember that too many people make and love music for it to ever die. It will never be over. The music will outlast us all."COLORADO SPRINGS, Aug. 30 — The D.J. puts on the popular song "No Problem" by Lil Scrappy, and a sea of young men and women rush the dance floor.As the party anthem bursts through the speakers and Lil Scrappy drawls, "But you don't want no problem, problem," the crowd swerves in a sweaty, liquor-soaked rhythm. The scene, heavy with the sweet smoke of cigarillos and exploding with hip-hop's unmistakable pounding bass, could be almost anywhere: New York, Chicago, Memphis, Oakland, Calif.The only sign that this is Colorado Springs is that two churches sit adjacent to the club, La Zona Roja, in an empty strip mall.The club is part of a thriving hip-hop community that has grown as Colorado Springs, known for its military installations and evangelical groups, has grown. But not everyone is happy that hip-hop has taken root here.After a spate of shootings, and with a rising murder rate, the police here are saying gangsta rap is contributing to the violence, luring gang members and criminal activity to nightclubs. The police publicly condemned the music in a news release after a killing in July and are warning nightclub owners that their places might not be safe if they play gangsta rap."We don't want to broad-brush hip-hop music altogether," said Lt. Skip Arms, a police spokesman, "but we're looking at a subcomponent that typically glorifies, promotes criminal behavior and demeans women."The actions of the police have angered the hip-hop community here, mostly blacks and Latinos, many of whom live in this city because of ties to the Army and Air Force bases here."If we were talking about a rock bar or a country bar here, none of this would be happening," said James Baldrick, who runs a local hip-hop promotions company, Dirty Limelight."This city wants to shut down hip-hop," said Mike Cross, 26, who was outside Eden Nite Club, a popular downtown venue that plays hip-hop, with a group of friends on a recent night. "They don't want it to survive."Calling the police's approach ignorant, a group of club promoters and rappers in Colorado Springs organized a night of hip-hop performances and music at La Zona Roja last month, seeking to prove that such events could occur without incident."When two cowboys got into an argument at a saloon, went outside and had a draw, nobody blamed the music that was playing at the saloon," said a local rapper known as B. Serious, who performed at the event.But with 19 homicides already this year, compared with 15 in 2006, the police insist on a correlation between gangsta rap and violence, and point to three recent shootings.On April 17, a stray bullet killed a taxi driver during a fight between two groups who had left Eden Nite Club. After a fight at a concert at a local park on Memorial Day, a man was shot to death in a nearby liquor store parking lot. On July 9, a former high school football star, Diontea Jackson-Forrest, was shot and killed. The authorities said the suspect was involved in an altercation at Eden before the shooting.Two days after Mr. Jackson-Forrest's death, the police issued a news release blaming the violence on gangsta rap. The release mentioned an event planned at Eden, called a "Pimp, Thug and Ho Party," as the "type of behavior that causes concern." The club's owners called off the party.Mr. Baldrick noted that the shooting after the Memorial Day concert, which his company sponsored, occurred two hours after the event, yet the police linked the two. He said that since the authorities began speaking out against gangsta rap, there had been a drop in attendance at events promoted by Dirty Limelight, down to 200 from about 700 per event.But Lt. Thomas Harris, who leads a unit that deals with gangs, drugs and guns, insisted there was a link between the violence and the music."When you have music that says it's basically O.K. to treat women poorly, to steal things and to confront and shoot police officers," said Lt. Harris, "you'll attract a small percentage of the population that wants to lead the thug life."Others here say the police are focusing on hip-hop instead of addressing the growing pains of this largely white, conservative city, home to the evangelical groups Focus on the Family and New Life Church.Since 1990, the metropolitan area of Colorado Springs, which sits south of Denver, has swollen to nearly half a million from 397,000. Though outright racial tensions, which led to marches here in the 1970s and '80s, are largely of the past, there remains a sense of benign neglect toward minorities, said Dr. José J. Barrera, former director of ethnic studies at the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs. That neglect has translated into a chasm between the city and its minority youth, Dr. Barrera said."If you examine the history of ethnic and race relations in this community, you will detect a pattern of ignorance of minority cultures and problems," Dr. Barrera said. "No serious observer believes that current manifestations of youth culture and pop culture actually fuel criminal activity."At the recent hip-hop showcase at La Zona Roja, the genre's positive side eclipsed all else.After the show, the crowd tumbled out of the club. Young men politely chatted up a group of women. A couple tried to coordinate a ride home. Two men exchanged solemn stories of prison.The only sign of trouble was a flat tire on someone's customized sedan.Electronic composers don't have to know how high a B flat clarinet can play or remember how many fingers a pianist has on each hand, but the prospect of near-limitless opportunity generated by computers and synthetic sound makers can be even more intimidating for them.The International Contemporary Ensemble brought music by the French composer Philippe Manoury to the Spiegeltent at South Street Seaport on Tuesday. In an abbreviated program (the original lineup ran long, and another act had booked the space afterward) two pieces offered examples of how differently machine-made sounds and acoustical instruments (albeit juiced with a little electricity) serve the human voice.The voice in question was Tony Arnold's. A soprano, Ms. Arnold sustained the languid pace of four sections of "En Echo" and managed the emotional ups and downs of the nine-part "Cruel Spirals," both with distinction. "En Echo" sets poems by Emmanuel Hocquard lurking somewhere between legitimate erotic poetry and soft porn. Mr. Manoury's synthetic sounds offered the usual rattles, barks, sudden explosions and even some feminine panting at (forgive me) climactic moments.  Yet the general context had the modified Hammond organ sonority that describes caution more than adventure.The other problem of electronic composition indicated here is its difficulty in getting along with the human voice. "En Echo" offered a matchup in which Ms. Arnold did not stand a chance. With the exception of several lovely moments, where recorded voices echoed vocal lines or else took them up in flight and built on them, the voice part was reduced to near obscurity."Cruel Spirals" was the more successful music perhaps because of the limits that human ability imposes on possibility. Jerome Rothenberg's poetry offered jeremiads against the successes of the rich and powerful over the weak and the poor, and then a lament for the Holocaust. The instruments were a string quintet, guitar, flute, clarinet and percussion.Funereal drumbeats taken up by other instruments were a recurring background for agitated rhythmic fragments, uncomfortable silences, frantic melees of close-quarters counterpoint and Mahlerian sighs. Not a very happy atmosphere, but then consider the subject matter.Matthew Ward conducted this fine band of players. The Spiegeltent is evidently a relic from an earlier era of theatrical touring: circular and lined with red plush and gold. Drinks could be had and were. An unsubstantiated rumor says that Marlene Dietrich once played under it, but enough name-dropping.MANU CHAO"La Radiolina"(Nacional Records)The French-Spanish pop star Manu Chao works hard to keep things as simple as possible. His principal tools are the acoustic guitar, the rock band, the digital sampler, chatter from the street and the radio and worldwide panic."La Radiolina," his first studio album in six years, continues a line of discourse he's been at since 1998, and though the ruckus isn't as interesting as it was on his last record, "Proxima Estación Esperanza," it's pretty similar: One short track flows into another, often echoing something from a few songs back, and the record coheres through reccurring samples of police sirens, harmonica blowing and flickering guitar lines. This is the logic of dub-reggae, in which one's own work is recycled into infinite versions. But since this is Manu Chao, the repetition could also imply that life on the street, its joys and hardships, never stops.If the phrase "infinita tristeza," which cycles through the new song "Tristeza Maleza," sounds familiar, that's because it was the key phrase in a song called "Infinita Tristeza" from the last album. And if, along the course of the new record, "El Hoyo" sounds to you like "Mama Cuchara," which sounds like the album's single, "Rainin' in Paradize," you're not wrong. It's the same three-chord, minor-key progression.No doubt his basic concept is powerful: a folk-punk-rumba-flamenco pidgin, with shorthand agitprop lyrics made of small, urgent phrases, sung in his thin, nasal, rancor-free voice. He uses a mode of lyric writing that's unelaborate, untheoretical. When there is a siren noise behind thoughts like "infinite sadness," "What do you want from me?," "panic," "violence" and "blood"— sung in English, French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese — you understand reflexively that he's talking about everyday politics among interconnected cultures. And if you don't, "Tristeza Maleza" calls out George W. Bush by name.But the disappointment of "La Radiolina" is that Manu Chao's music isn't as arrestingly odd as it used to be. Too often his band's ska-punk gets uncomfortably close to dull rock, and the repetition doesn't communicate we are all singing the same song. It just communicates repetition. BEN RATLIFFYUNG JOC"Hustlenomic$"  (Bad Boy South)When it first surfaced on mixtapes, "Coffee Shop," the cheerful single by Yung Joc, seemed like a goofy but effective twist on dope-boy rap. The chorus made a crack house sound like Starbucks: "First I take they order, like the coffee shop/Then I steam it up and cook it, like the coffee shop."But when a brightly colored video showed up on "106 & Park," BET's teenage-oriented music countdown, the twist was twisted. In the video Yung Joc plays a variety of characters who all work at a cheerful-looking place that sells rims, sneakers and — you guessed it — coffee. So some viewers probably didn't even think twice. To them it was just an innocent little song about a neighborhood hangout.Yung Joc has carved out a lucrative niche by taking streetwise Atlanta hip-hop and turning it into something cuddlier. His major-label debut, "New Joc City," spawned one of last year's biggest hip-hop hits, "It's Going Down." (Also known as the song with the motorcycle dance.) And "Hustlenomic$," the follow-up, is aimed at the same young audience.He's not much of a rapper. (When the Southern rap godfather Bun B and the witty upstart Young Dro pay him a visit during "I'm a G," it's as if someone has turned the lights on.) But Yung Joc has a nasal voice that sounds tuneful whether or not he's singing, and he fills this CD with playful beats and catchy refrains. It's no masterpiece, but it is a shrewd — and sometimes enjoyable — reflection of the current music marketplace. Yung Joc knows that, contrary to conventional wisdom, street credibility doesn't often translate into record sales, and he knows he'll never win over the mixtape world. Smarter, surely, to aim for another kid-friendly hit. Wouldn't any rational hustler rather sell coffee than crack, if only he could? KELEFA SANNEHCHRISTIAN SCOTT"Anthem" (Concord)For Christian Scott, a 24-year-old trumpeter originally from New Orleans, jazz is an adaptable set of strategies rather than a fixed ideal. He made that point with a rather heavy hand on his callow debut, "Rewind That" (Concord), issued last year. But he made it with enough style and conviction to earn a Grammy nomination, eager acclaim and a featured role on the new Prince album."Anthem," Mr. Scott's follow-up, pushes toward something deeper. The album's 12 tracks, all originals and all but one by the leader, cohere as a single statement. Mr. Scott — playing trumpet as well as cornet, fluegelhorn and soprano trombone — sounds self-assured but also willfully challenged. And there's clear commitment in his interaction with the drummer Marcus Gilmore, the pianist Aaron Parks, the guitarist Matt Stevens and the bassist Luques Curtis, who make up a steely yet reactive core.Rock, soul and hip-hop predominate here, though each has been absorbed into a group sound. The direct allusions are few but telling. "Cease Fire" has the same DNA as a track produced by J Dilla on the first Bilal album. At the other end of the spectrum lies "The 9," which Mr. Scott wrote with the alto saxophonist Louis Fouché; its serpentine melody evokes the head-spinning post-bop once epitomized by Donald Harrison (a saxophonist, and Mr. Scott's uncle) and Terence Blanchard (a trumpeter, and his most direct stylistic forerunner).Given that Mr. Parks also plays in Mr. Blanchard's band, there's a not-so-secret connection to be made here. On some level it has to do with New Orleans, and with loss. Through intense compositions like "Litany Against Fear" and "Dialect," not to mention a mournful slow jam called "Katrina's Eyes," Mr. Scott stirs up a complex brew of emotions, rendered all the more potent by his evident restraint.Then comes a fever-breaking valediction, "Anthem (Post Diluvial Adaptation)," with vocals by Brother J of the hip-hop group X Clan. Unsubtle and enraged, it leaves nothing unspoken. Not even the mystery of what inspired Mr. Scott to outgrow his own precocity. NATE CHINENJUST JACK"Overtones" (TVT)The drab particularities of everyday life hold an endless fascination for English songwriters like Just Jack, the alias of the North London songwriter Jack Allsopp. The songs on his second album, "Overtones," mention crusty dishes in the sink, novelty sunglasses and karaoke machines. With a quiet, reedy voice that's equally unassuming whether he's singing or rapping, he sounds exquisitely self-deprecating. But a fascination with disappointments small and large — from crumbling romances to misspent lives — gives him plenty of opportunities to be ingenious.Just Jack got his start as a disc jockey, and his music manipulates both the pop appeal and the glum aftertaste of nostalgia. In "No Time" he sings, "I don't want to talk about it, the way you broke my heart," nearly quoting Rod Stewart, then continues, "I hate so many things about you I wouldn't know where to start." A strutting bass line and swooping disco strings don't hide the bitterness.He often draws on 1980's electro and its latter-day echoes in English garage, and he concocts mild electronic tracks that hark back to the Pet Shop Boys. But he doesn't rule out hand-played instruments; now and then he picks an acoustic guitar for a touch of folky sincerity, or uses horns for loungey atmosphere.Through his pleasant vamps and lilting pop choruses, Just Jack is observant and unsparing. Despite some outnumbered optimistic songs, most of his characters watch their lives go downhill. A yuppie in "Lost" who's no longer comforted by his luxury goods or his infidelity; a pop star well past his peak in "Starz in Their Eyes," a man realizing as he wakes up that his lover has left him in "Mourning Morning." The songs aren't exactly disillusioned. With such low expectations, Just Jack didn't have many illusions to start with. JON PARELES  CHIODOS"Bone Palace Ballet" (Equal Vision)Who knows what emo even means anymore? This summer the term seems broad enough to include mainstream rock (Plain White T's), sparkly pop (Paramore) and self-deprecating hip-hop (Gym Class Heroes). In this context the emerging Michigan band Chiodos seems traditionalist, devoted to the screaming, chaotic version of emo that was all the rage a few years ago. Long song titles, vein-popping choruses, spiteful lyrics: They're all here.Luckily the band members seem to believe that anything worth doing is worth doing bombastically. Craigery Owens, the virtuosic lead singer, could be doing double duty in a horror movie. He alternates between the fearsome roar of a monster and the pleading falsetto of a victim. And the best songs here go way over the top, like "Bulls Make Money, Bears Make Money, Pigs Get Slaughtered," which gets more unhinged as it goes on. The new-wave introduction makes way for an operatic chorus and a mosh-metal break; eventually there's nothing left but screaming noise.Though this band's 2005 album, "All's Well That Ends Well," offered one jump-cut tantrum after another, this CD is a bit slower and sweeter, with lots of strings. Near the end comes the inevitable piano-driven power ballad, "Intensity in Ten Cities." (Mr. Owens confesses, "I'm not the one that you want/I'll always let you down.")Clearly this is meant to be a breakthrough album; Mr. Owens certainly seems like a potential rock star. But then consider that "All's Well" sold more than 170,000 copies, thanks mainly to nonstop touring and online word of mouth. Given the robust health of the emo underground and the sad state of the music industry, maybe a thriving cult band like this one is better off staying put. KELEFA SANNEHIn the old days of the Metropolitan Opera's Saturday afternoon radio broadcasts, a popular feature on the "Texaco Opera Quiz," as the intermission show used to be called, involved playing recordings of several artists singing the same well-known aria and asking the panelists to identify the singers. It was surprising how often even opera experts would confuse one great artist with another.But no one ever mistook the voice of Luciano Pavarotti. There was the warm, enveloping sound: a classic Italian tenor voice, yes, but touched with a bit of husky baritonal darkness, which made Mr. Pavarotti's flights into his gleaming upper range seem all the more miraculous.And it wasn't just the sound that was so recognizable. In Mr. Pavarotti's artistry, language and voice were one. He had an idiomatic way of binding the rounded vowels and sputtering consonants of his native Italian to the tones and colorings of his voice. This practice is central to the Italian vocal heritage, and Mr. Pavarotti was one of its exemplars.For intelligence, discipline, breadth of repertory, musicianship, interpretive depth and virile vocalism, Mr. Pavarotti was outclassed by his Three Tenors sidekick and chief rival, Plácido Domingo. But for sheer Italianate tenorial beauty, Mr. Pavarotti was hard to top. That was certainly the position of his longtime manager, Herbert Breslin, who combined his own promotional savvy with his chief client's vocal greatness to produce the moneymaking phenomenon that was Mr. Pavarotti's career. Call it Pavarotti Inc."Nobody in the tenor world has Luciano's sound, that Italian sound," Mr. Breslin told Manuela Hoelterhoff for her wonderful 1998 book "Cinderella & Company."  "Domingo," he added, "would have to go pray in 17 churches in Guadalajara to find that sound."However partisan that zinger may have been, there was some truth to it. To hear Mr. Pavarotti at his best in a role like Riccardo in Verdi's "Ballo in Maschera" — spinning lyrical phrases with bel canto elegance, then stunning you with visceral vocal outbursts — was to hear Italian operatic artistry at its finest.In a career quirk, a French role became the vehicle of Mr. Pavarotti's breakthrough to the big time in the early 1970s: Tonio in Donizetti's "Fille du Régiment," written for the Opéra-Comique in Paris. Mr. Pavarotti's French may have sounded like French-tinged Italian, but it didn't matter. The opera has a showpiece aria in which, over a breezy oom-pah-pah accompaniment, Tonio must dispatch nine very exposed high Cs. Other great tenors, like Alfredo Kraus, excelled in the role. But no one ever tossed off those high Cs with the ease, pinging tone and utter glee of Mr. Pavarotti in those years. He was quickly promoted as the King of the High Cs, and so began his 30-year conquest of the public.By natural endowment Mr. Pavarotti was essentially a lyric tenor, ideally suited to lighter roles in Donizetti, Bellini and Verdi requiring lyrical grace and agile passage work. Yet his voice, like everything about him, was uncommonly large. With that big throbbing sound, he was tempted into weightier repertory requiring dramatic power and heft, like Calaf in Puccini's "Turandot." Some opera purists maintain that Mr. Pavarotti erred by straying from the lyric terrain. Don't tell that to anyone lucky enough to have heard him sing "Nessun dorma" in his prime, not just as a signature aria for televised stadium concerts, but in the context of a full production of "Turandot." Wow!Mr. Pavarotti, who was 19 when he finally began serious studies in voice, could barely read music. In itself this need not have been a problem. Enrico Caruso also had only rudimentary knowledge of music theory, and that didn't hurt him any. But this deficiency clearly set Mr. Pavarotti apart from Mr. Domingo, who grew up preparing orchestrations for his parents'   zarzuela company.Still, in singing, knowledge is not enough. Musical instinct is crucial, and Mr. Pavarotti had powerful instincts. He was never as interesting a singer as Mr. Domingo, but at his best he could be inspired and, in his way, profound. Moreover, he genuinely liked performing and pleasing people, which made up for his limited capabilities as an actor.During the first half of his career he worked hard to compensate for his late start and minimal knowledge. Though he sang only about 25 roles onstage, some involved risky ventures into less familiar repertory, like Fernando in Donizetti's "Favorita," filled with taxing spans of ornate vocal lines.Yet ultimately, for all that Mr. Pavarotti gave to opera, it's hard to avoid feeling that he never completely fulfilled his potential, that he squandered some of his awesome talent by letting his enablers turn him from a hard-working artist into an overindulged and sometimes clownish superstar.In the disappointing last decade of his career he coasted on his talent and popularity. His old friend and colleague Joan Sutherland dropped hints in interviews that he should retire. For me, the low point came in 1997, seven years before his last Met appearances, when he sang a recital on the Met stage as a pension-fund benefit, a program of songs by Schubert, Scarlatti and others, with a few hit arias. He was shockingly unprepared, glued to his music stand even during staples like Schubert's "Ave Maria." He tried to sing a selection of lighter Italian songs by Tosti from memory. But his pianist had to feed him the first word or two of nearly every line, as one could hear from Row L. What did this performance say to aspiring singers about the prerogatives of fame and fortune?But this is a day to remember the glory of Luciano Pavarotti, like the Met's 1996 production of Giordano's "Andrea Chénier," mounted for him. He hardly cut the figure of a dashing revolutionary poet in late-18th-century France. And if he was no longer the King of High Cs, he dispatched some kingly high B flats and a high B that was at least princely. Still, there was revolutionary ardor in the melting warmth, power and urgency of his singing. And there was that sound.FilmMatt Zoller SeitzIn an especially chilling scene from "ULZANA'S RAID," Robert Aldrich's 1972 western about cavalrymen tracking an Apache war party, soldiers come across a homesteader's burned, partially flayed corpse propped against a tree, his own dog's tail jammed in his mouth like a sock. The unit's naïve lieutenant, DeBuin (a baby-faced Bruce Davison), asks why the man was killed this way. His grizzled white scout, McIntosh (Burt Lancaster), replies: "Apaches got a sense of humor. Nothing you'd recognize. They just find some things funny."The movie  flopped at the box office, probably because its images hit too close to home. On Sunday afternoon it is being screened by the Museum of the Moving Image. The atrocity-filled script, written by Alan Sharp ("Rob Roy," AMC's "Broken Trail"),  is a Vietnam allegory about uniformed soldiers fighting a wraithlike enemy force whose menace is both physical and psychological.Lancaster's superb performance as McIntosh is a portrait of a man living between two cultures: the whites to whom he owes cultural allegiance and the Apaches with whom he's temperamentally attuned. The fluidity of McIntosh's identity — he works for the  cavalry but interacts comfortably with Indians and has an Apache wife — suggests that he's ahead of his time, a notion that the movie wisely underplays. Unsentimental and still unsettling, "Ulzana's Raid" is a bridging work, a brutal action picture that builds upon "The Searchers" and Mr. Aldrich's "Apache!" (which starred  Lancaster as a renegade brave) and anticipates the lyrical brutality of "Apocalypse Now" and "The Last of the Mohicans." 3 p.m., 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, ammi.org; $10 for adults, $7.50 for 65+ and college students, $5  for children.TheaterJesse Green"The Coast of Utopia" closed in May and "Rock 'n' Roll" isn't scheduled to open until November, but theatergoers hungry for more Stoppard need not starve in the meantime. Starting Thursday, the Off Off Broadway BOOMERANG THEATER COMPANY presents — in repertory with J. B. Priestley's 1932 melodrama "Dangerous Corner" and the world premiere of "The Heart Has a Mind of Its Own," by Larry Kirwan — a tasting menu of three early Stoppard one-acts under the overall title "STOPPARD GOES ELECTRIC."That title refers to the plays' origins on television — all three were written for the BBC — and also to the their decidedly groovy aura. "Teeth," from 1967, is a dental-marital sex farce: Who's drilling whom? In "Another Moon Called Earth," also from 1967, a possibly adulterous woman takes to her bed while a parade for the first "lunanaut" passes her window. (Her unimpressed husband calls the hero "a cargo.") And in "A Separate Peace," from 1966, a jaunty man checks himself into a nursing home as a retreat from the confusion of life outside. Hippielike, he paints landscapes on the institutional walls.Though they are less original and less polished than his later works (Mr. Stoppard was not quite 30 when he wrote them), these one-acts, rarely if ever staged before, offer a fascinating glimpse of his apprentice style: the menacing Pinteresque setups, the ambivalent Beckettian payoffs. Perhaps in deference to television's flatness, the jokes are less flashy than in, say, "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead," Mr. Stoppard's breakthrough stage play of the same period. But they still land convincingly and in a similar place, in the heart of the dreadful realization  that people were no longer central in their own lives. Through Sept. 23, Center Stage, 48 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 501-4069, theatermania.com; $20.TelevisionMike HaleBeing a "Doctor Who" fan in America these days can be a little confusing. To recap: Sci Fi Channel is currently showing new episodes from the 2007 season — the third season of the new series and the 29th "Doctor Who" season overall — on Friday nights. BBC America, meanwhile, has a marathon of the 2005 season (the Christopher Eccleston one) this weekend, from 1 p.m. Saturday to 2 a.m. Sunday, after which episodes from the 2005 and 2006 seasons will be in heavy rotation. But here's the real news: "TORCHWOOD," the "Doctor Who" spinoff that  began last year on BBC Three, has its premiere on BBC America next Saturday (9 p.m.). John Barrowman reprises his role as the immortal Capt. Jack Harkness, who now leads a covert group that uses scavenged alien technology to battle aliens from its headquarters beneath a Cardiff manhole.More good news for Anglophiles: The eight-hour mini-series "A DANCE TO THE MUSIC OF TIME," adapted from Anthony Powell's 12-novel cycle about British life from World War I to the 1970s, has just been released here on DVD (Acorn Media, four discs, $59.99). Shown on Channel 4 in 1997, it's never been broadcast in the United States. The sprawling cast includes Simon Russell Beale as the inexorable Kenneth Widmerpool, as well as James Purefoy, Miranda Richardson, Zoë Wanamaker, John Gielgud, Edward Fox, Alan Bennett and Eileen Atkins.On a more all-American note, fans of Justin Timberlake should be able to see their hero from every angle they've ever imagined, and then some, in the concert special "JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: FUTURESEX/LOVESHOW" (9 p.m. Monday), which was filmed at Madison Square Garden on Aug. 16 using a reported 43 cameras.DanceClaudia La RoccoAt first glance it might seem that a kumu hula, or hula master, and the mischievous postmodern dance-theater artist DAVID GORDON are products of different universes. But both Mr. Gordon and HOKULANI HOLT  are American artists. On Friday you can see for yourself if they have anything more than that in common, as the Joyce Theater and the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council present "American Masterpieces: Dance" at the eighth annual Evening Stars series, part of the River to River Festival.The show features four works selected by the National Endowment for the Art's American Masterpieces initiative, which, in part, offers grants for the reconstruction of lost works,  an especially vital service to dance. The evening also includes José Limón's 1954 response to the McCarthy hearings, "The Traitor," performed by the Limón Dance Company, and Talley Beatty's first piece, "Southern Landscapes," a 1947 exploration of slaves in the antebellum South. Philadanco has reconstructed the work and will also be performing it. Mr. Gordon's Pick Up Performance Company is reviving the 1982 work "Trying Times," a deconstruction of Stravinsky's "Apollo." Finally audiences will catch a glimpse of traditional hula, or "kahiko," in an excerpt of "Kahekili," which will feature chant and percussive elements, performed live by the Hokulani Holt/Pa'u O Hi'iaka company. Phew. Who says there's no dance happening in the city right now? 7:30 p.m., Battery Park, rivertorivernyc.com; free.ClassicalAllan KozinnLike just about everything else, the classical music world takes a break around Labor Day, a deep breath between the summer festivals and the new season. But as any conceptual artist might tell you, anything can be a concert if you want it to be. And starting Wednesday at noon, and running for 24 hours 33 minutes, WNYC is celebrating the greatest conceptual artist of them all, JOHN CAGE, on what would have been his 95th birthday.There's a catch: WNYC is broadcasting the program, called "24:33"  —  a play on Cage's famous, three-movement silent work, "4' 33" "  — on its HD radio station, WNYC2.  But if you don't have an HD receiver, you can tune in on the Internet (wnyc.org/music/johncage.html); WNYC's FM station, 93.9, will carry the part of the celebration that runs from midnight to 5 a.m. on Thursday.Included in this marathon are performance recordings and interviews with Cage, his colleagues and interpreters, drawn from WNYC's archives. Among the highlights are "Indeterminacy," with Cage and David Tudor, and several short works, including the Suite for Toy Piano (1 p.m.); the "First" "Second" and "Third Construction" (3 p.m.); "Four2," "Four5" and "Four3" (4 p.m.), the multimedia classic, "Apartment House 1776" (Thursday at 7 a.m.); excerpts from the 1982 "Wall-to-Wall Cage" concert at Symphony Space and from Joan La Barbara's 1992 Summerstage concert, with Cage playing the prepared piano (scattered through the day).If you prefer a more communal Cage celebration, St. Mark's Church is presenting a tribute of Cage works and Cage-inspired pieces by listeners, the only rule being that all performances must be 4 minutes 33 seconds or shorter. Wednesday at 7:30, St. Mark's Parish Hall, 131 East 10th Street, East Village; free.PopNate ChinenDADDY YANKEE was to have appeared at a reggaetón celebration at Shea Stadium in June. For medical reasons he didn't make it, leaving his rival, Don Omar, to pick up the slack. Maybe that was for the best: Daddy Yankee, who called his triumphant new album "El Cartel: The Big Boss" (El Cartel/Interscope), doesn't seem inclined to share the spotlight.A couple of years ago the momentum of his monster hit "Gasolina" helped make him the first reggaetón star to headline an arena tour in the United States. "Impacto," the biggest single off the new album, comes with rapid-fire patter and a boom-chicka-boom beat (muy reggaetón) as well as a robot voice and a remix featuring Fergie (very 2007). "El Cartel" includes guests like Akon and the Pussycat Doll Nicole Scherzinger; proof, as if any were needed, that Daddy Yankee is looking well beyond niche-genre success. Still, he has kept his music firmly rooted in Latin styles, including salsa, which expresses itself in the horn parts on another single, "Ella Me Levantó." When his tour stops at Madison Square Garden on Friday, the scene should evoke both a Puerto Rican pride festival and a pop extravaganza. 7:30 p.m.,  (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $51.50 to $91.50. Latin music is even more fluid for FRANCISCO MELA, a Cuban-born drummer whose debut, "Melao" (Ayva), was one of last year's best jazz albums. In his music, folk incantations brush up against post-bop meanderings in a manner that's purposeful but never forced. On Tuesday and Wednesday Mr. Mela will record his next album at the Blue Note with the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner, the pianist Jason Moran, the guitarist Lionel Loueke and the bassist Larry Grenadier. It's a crew that should provoke some thoughtful investigations. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $25 at tables, $15 at the bar.ArtBenjamin GenocchioThe Chelsea art gallery scene gets back into full swing this week, and many good shows beckon. Among them is one of black-and-white photographs from the 1970s by the Japanese photographer KOHEI YOSHIYUKI at the Yossi Milo Gallery. Taken in parks, using infrared film and a flash, they document a bizarre ritual: young Japanese couples who gathered there at night for romantic trysts, as well as the numerous spectators hiding in the nearby bushes who liked to watch. A new book on this artist's work with essays and an interview will accompany the exhibition. Thursday  through Oct. 20, 525 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-0370, yossimilogallery.com.Meanwhile Greene Naftali Gallery is presenting the second New York solo exhibition by the Miami artist JIM DRAIN, who is known for making colorful mixed-media works that messily blend psychedelic imagery and elements from art history and consumer culture. For his latest body of work he pays homage to the 1960s music legend Iggy Pop with sculptures, collages and photographs. Some toilet-seat furniture and a wallpaper installation add a more prosaic dimension to the show. Friday  through Oct. 13, 526 West 26th Street, No. 8, Chelsea, (212) 463-7770, greenenaftaligallery.com. A fascination with guerrilla warfare, militias and American frontier history is the inspiration for the first New York solo exhibition by ADAM HELMS at Marianne Boesky Gallery. The works by Mr. Helms,  a Brooklyn artist, include hyperrealist landscapes in charcoal of the mountainous American West, double-sided silk-screens on vellum of sinister-looking masks and balaclavas laid over appropriated black-and-white images of historical and contemporary figures, and a pair of sculptures, one a replica of an abandoned old fortification, the other a life-size taxidermy buffalo. It is Jeff Koons crossed with Cormac McCarthy. Through Oct. 6, 509 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9889, marianneboeskygallery.com.YOU probably know the Italian actress Monica Bellucci from her roles in "The Matrix Reloaded" and "The Passion of the Christ."  But have you ever heard her speak in her melodic native language?You can  do that at the fourth annual New Italian Film Festival, Oct. 26 to 28, at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. Coordinated by the university's Center for Italian Studies, the festival is  one in a clutch of  film events across Long Island  this fall.At Stony Brook's Italian festival, nine movies with English subtitles will show at  the Staller Center and the Charles B. Wang Center on campus. Most of the  films  have had commercial success in Italy but do not have an international distributor, according to the festival's director, Prof. Gioacchino Balducci.The exceptions include Ms. Bellucci's "Manual of Love II," the sequel to the romantic film that won the audience favorite award during the university's Stony Brook Film Festival in July 2006.  The opening feature will be "Golden Door," directed by Emanuele Crialese, the story of an Italian immigrant family at Ellis Island.The movie represents the realism that is so appealing in  Italian cinema, according to  Mr. Balducci.  People can  "identify with the characters," he said.The desire to relate to characters on the  screen was what first inspired the Long Island Gay and Lesbian Film Festival, according to its director, Steve Flynn. "Fifteen or 20 years ago, gay people felt like they weren't seeing their images on the screen," Mr. Flynn said.In its 10th year, the festival takes place at the Cinema Arts Center in Huntington, Nov.  9 to 15. Among the 70 or so  films, the closing feature is "A Four Letter Word," a romantic comedy directed by Casper Andreas  that has been  at similar festivals across the country, including Outfest in Los Angeles in July.  "A Four Letter Word" will also close the sixth annual Fire Island Film and Video Festival, a related gay and lesbian series of around 25 films, Sept. 12 to 15.  Randy Jones,  best known as the cowboy in the Village People,  will introduce the opening film, "Godfather of Disco," a history of dance music  connected with the gay and drag community in Cherry Grove on Fire Island, Mr. Flynn said.You probably won't see many stars at the  second annual Long Island Big Fish Film Festival, tentatively scheduled for Oct. 13 to 18 at Bellmore Movies. But you will see  up to 30 movies made by Long Island filmmakers or films that were at least partly shot there.An outgrowth of  the  Long Island International Film Expo held each summer,  Big Fish highlights some of the movies that could not be  included in the expo, said Debra Markowitz, director of the Nassau County Film Office."You'll see films made for $500 to $5 million," she said.FilmDIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts 2007 Long Island International Film Expo: Screenings of feature and short films. Sept. 11 at 7 p.m. $10. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org.ComedyDIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts Long Island Comedy Festival benefit for Long Island Cares, with comedians from New York City. Sept. 15 at 7:30 p.m. $35. "The St. Francis Show," comedy by John Blenn. Sept. 28 and 29. $15. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org.LEVITTOWN Governor's Comedy Club Robert Schimmel, comedian. Through Sunday. $25 and two drinks. "All Star Comedy Show," with Stan Keshner, Tim Gage, Ellen Karis and Steve Lazarus. Thursday at 8 p.m. $12 and two drinks. Al Ducharme and Rob Falcone. Friday through Sept. 9. $15 and two drinks. Governor's Comedy Club, 90 A Division Avenue. (516) 731-3358; www.govs.com.PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts Pat Cooper. Oct. 6 at 7:30 p.m. $48 and $55. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; www.patchoguetheatre.com.For ChildrenBAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts John Alexander, magician. Oct. 12 at 7 p.m. $15. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.org.BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts "Pajama Party Live!," music and performance for children, presented by Dittydoodle Works. Oct. 5 at 11 a.m. $30 and $35. Dan Zanes, music for children. All ages. Oct. 7 at 11 a.m. $25 and $30. "Dinosaurs," performed by the actor Jim West. Ages 5 to 9. Oct. 27 at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. $20. "On Top of Spaghetti," performed by the Paper Bag Players. Ages 5 to 9. Dec. 15 at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. $20. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; www.tillescenter.org.DIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts "The Magic of Thaddeus," magic show. Sept. 8 at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. $10. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org.GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum "Bricks and Sticks," an investigation of three-dimensional objects with building materials. "Bubbles," children's activity. "Changes and Challenges," problem solving for children. "Communication Station," communication from cave painting to satellite technology. "It's Alive!," exploration of how living things grow, eat, move, sense and reproduce. "Pattern Studio," patterns in art, nature, music, mathematics, and history. All for ages 4 and up. All through Dec. 31. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. (516) 224-5800; www.licm.org.RIVERHEAD Dinosaur Walk Museum "Primordial Sea," display of dinosaur fossils. Through Monday. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Dinosaur Walk Museum, 221 East Main Street. (631) 369-6556; www.dinowalk.com/ny.WESTBURY North Fork Theater "Peter Pan and Wendy," play by J. M. Barrie. Oct. 13 at 11 a.m. $15. North Fork Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800; www.livenation.com.WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center The Bari Koral Family Rock and Roll Band, music for the whole family. All ages. Nov. 20 at 11 a.m. $15 to $25. The New York Theater Ballet presents "The Nutcracker." All ages. Dec. 7 at 7 p.m. $15 to $25. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; www.whbpac.org.Music and DanceBROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts Ballet Folklórico de México de Amalia Hernández. Oct. 19 at 8 p.m. $30 to $65. "Promethean Fire," performed by the Paul Taylor Dance Company. Dec. 7 at 8 p.m. $40 to $65. "The Nutcracker," performed by the Eglevsky Ballet. Dec. 22 through 26. $35 to $55. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; www.tillescenter.org.BAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts Melissa Manchester, singer and songwriter. Sept. 9 at 7 p.m. $65. Pure Prairie League. Sept. 14 at 7 and 9:30 p.m. $40. John Ford Coley and Terry Sylvester. Sept. 15 at 8 p.m. $35. Mary Weiss, the original lead singer of the Shangri-Las. Sept. 21 at 8 p.m. $40. Orleans. Sept. 22 at 7 and 9:30 p.m. $40. Sophie B. Hawkins, singer and songwriter. Sept. 27 at 8 p.m. $30. Chris Hillman, rock, country and blues. Sept. 28 at 8 p.m. $40. Vienna Teng, folk and pop. Sept. 29 at 8 p.m. $20. James Cotton, blues. Oct. 5 at 8 p.m. $40. Howard Jones, pop. Oct. 6 at 7 and 9:30 p.m. $40. Evolution, Journey tribute band. Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $20. Canta Libre Chamber Ensemble of flute, harp and strings. Oct. 14 at 2 p.m. $15. The New Riders of the Purple Sage, country, folk and rock. Oct. 27 at 7 and 9:30 p.m. $35. Tom Rush, singer and songwriter. Nov. 10 at 8 p.m. $35. John Corbett Band, country and southern rock. Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. $35. Lucy Kaplansky, singer and songwriter. Nov. 17 at 8 p.m. $35. Commander Cody, rock. Nov. 24 at 8 p.m. $35. "Christmas from Dublin," with the Irish tenors Ciaran Nagle, Brian Dunphy and Anthony Norton. Nov. 25 at 3 and 7 p.m. $40. Larry Chance and Lenny Coco, vocal group. Dec. 8 at 7 p.m. $40. Savoy Brown and Kim Simmonds, blues and rock. Dec. 15 at 8 p.m. $40. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.org.BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts "Matters of the Heart," by Patti LuPone. Sept. 29 at 8 p.m. $50 to $100. Music at Hillwood: A program of Schubert, Beethoven and Arensky performed by members of the Metropolitan Orchestra and the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center; narrated by Lynn Redgrave. Sept. 30 at 3 p.m. $40. "Be My Love: The Life of Mario Lanza in Song," performed by the Nassau Pops; conducted by Louis Panacciulli. Oct. 14 at 3 p.m. $30. New York Philharmonic, conducted by Christoph von Dohnányi; a program of Mozart and Beethoven. Oct. 26 at 8 p.m. $52 to $110. Bergen Philharmonic, conducted by Andrew Litton; a program of Saeverud, Grieg and Tchaikovsky. Nov. 9 at 8 p.m. $50 to $90. Maude Maggart, cabaret. Nov. 17 at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. $30 and $40. Music at Hillwood: Robert McDuffie, violinist. Dec. 2 at 3 p.m. $40. Andrea Marcovicci, singer and actress. Oct. 20 at 7:30 and 9 p.m. $35 and $45. Long Island Philharmonic, conducted by David Wiley, with cellist Zuill Baley; a program of Beethoven, Tchaikovsky and others. Oct. 21 at 7:30 p.m. $38 to $68. St. Petersburg Philharmonic, conducted by Yuri Temirkanov; a program of Mozart, Beethoven and Prokofiev. Nov. 3 at 8 p.m. $52 to $110. Yamato, Japanese drum performance. Nov. 10 at 7 p.m. $35 to $55. Music at Hillwood: The Shanghai Quartet, with cellist Hai-Ye Ni. Nov. 11 at 3 p.m. $40. C. W. Post Wind Ensemble and Symphonic Band. Nov. 18 at 2 p.m. $8. Long Island Philharmonic, conducted by David Wiley; a program of Bernstein, Gershwin and others. Nov. 18 at 7:30 p.m. $38 to $68. C. W. Post Orchestra, conducted by David Leighton. Nov. 26 at 8 p.m. $8. Quinn Lemley, jazz and cabaret singer. Dec. 1 at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. $30 and $40. Itzhak Perlman, violinist, with pianist Rohan De Silva. Dec. 8 at 8 p.m. $52 to $110. "100 Years of Broadway," a musical revue by Neil Berg. Dec. 15 at 8 p.m. $30 to $65. "Holiday Concert," by the C. W. Post Wind Ensemble and Symphonic Band, conducted by James McRoy. Dec. 16 at 3 p.m. $8. Long Island Youth Orchestra, conducted by Martin Dreiwitz. Dec. 16 at 7:30 p.m. $15. New Year's Eve Gala: "For the Love of Broadway," by the Long Island Philharmonic, conducted by David Wiley. Dec. 31 at 7:30 p.m. $55 to $85. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; www.tillescenter.org.DIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts Coven and Rondinelli and the Rhythm Section Summit. Friday at 7:30 p.m. John Lennon birthday celebration. Oct. 20 at 7:30 p.m. $20. "2007 Guitar Festival," featuring Tony Romano, Gene Bertoncini, Anton Del Forno and Gerry Saulter. Oct. 26 through 28. $10. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org.LONG BEACH Jones Beach State Park Alice Cooper and Queensryche. Sept. 8 at 6:30 p.m. $26 to $66. Earth, Wind and Fire, with Taylor Hicks. Sept. 9 at 7 p.m. $21 to $66. Aerosmith, with Joan Jett and the Blackhearts. Sept. 12 at 7:30 p.m. $40 to $130. Jones Beach State Park, Ocean Parkway. (631) 321-3510; www.livenation.com. OLD WESTBURY  Old Westbury Gardens  Long Island Mozart Festival 2007: Mozart performed by Orchestre de Chambre Français, the violinist Anna Rabinova, the Kende Trio and others; with historical dance, a wine tasting and puppets shows. Through Monday. $5 to $25. Old Westbury Gardens, 71 Old Westbury Road. (516) 333-0048; www.oldwestburygardens.org.PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts Patchogue Jam 2: KGB and the Sun Goes Down. Sept. 15 at 7 p.m. $20. Live in the Lobby: My Last Band and the Westons. Sept. 20 at 7 p.m. $5. Autumn Chamber Music Series: Parker String Quartet. Sept. 23 at 3 p.m. $12 and $15. Mickey B's Golden Oldies Fall Spectacular. Sept. 29 at 7:30 p.m. $41 and $46. "We Go Together," presented by the Long Island Sound Chorus of Sweet Adelines International. Sept. 30 at 3 p.m. $20. Live in the Lobby: The Sun Goes Down and Chris Van Cotts. Oct. 11 at 7 p.m. $5. Paul Mahos and New Life Crisis. Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. $37. Hammer of the Gods, a Led Zeppelin tribute band. Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $32 to $42. "Get Back(wards)," the Beatles tribute band Mostly Moptop, with Marci Geller. Oct. 20 at 7:30 p.m. $25. Autumn Chamber Music Series: Amstel Saxophone Quartet. Oct. 21 at 3 p.m. $12 and $15. Live in the Lobby: Caroline Doctorow, folk and pop music. Nov. 1 at 7 p.m. $10. The Glenn Miller Orchestra. Nov. 10 at 7 p.m. $40 to $50. The Nilas Martins Dance Company. Nov. 11 at 7 p.m. $29 to $49. Dominic Chianese, traditional Italian music. Nov. 17 at 7:30 p.m. $27 and $47. Autumn Chamber Music Series: Jennifer Stumm with Susie Park. Nov. 25 at 3 p.m. $12 and $15. Live in the Lobby: Hydroyum. Dec. 7 at 7 p.m. $5. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; www.patchoguetheatre.com.WESTBURY North Fork Theater Dick Fox's Fall Doo Wop Extravaganza, with Jay Siegel and the Tokens, the Classics, the Excellents, the Emotions and more. Sept. 8 at 8 p.m. $35 and $47. Judy Collins, with Nanci Griffith and Dar Williams. Sept. 14 at 8 p.m. $41.50 and $51.50. Hanson. Sept. 21 at 8 p.m. $40 and $50. Michael McDonald. Sept. 23 at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $61.50. Little Feat and Richie Furay. Sept. 28 at 8 p.m. $40 and $50. The O'Jays and the Manhattans. Oct. 5 at 8 p.m. $61.50 and $71.50. Engelbert Humperdinck. Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $61.50. Dick Fox's Golden Boys, with Frankie Avalon, Fabian and Bobby Rydell. Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $41.50 and $51.50. Crosby and Nash. Oct. 18 at 8 p.m. $41.50 and $51.50. Stephanie Mills and the Whispers, rhythm and blues. Oct. 27 at 8 p.m. $61.50 and $71.50. Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme. Nov. 2 through 4. $56.50 and $66.50.  The Emperor's New Clothes, British punk and jazz fusion band. Nov. 3 at 11 a.m. $15. Jay Black. Nov. 10 at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $61.50. Bellydance Superstars presents "Babelesque." Nov. 11 at 8 p.m. $40 and $50. Brian Setzer Orchestra presents "The Sixth Annual Christmas Extravaganza." Nov. 24 at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $61.50. Paul Anka, American standards. Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. Peter, Paul and Mary. Dec. 2 at 7 p.m. $41.50 and $51.50. Michael Amante, tenor. Dec. 9 at 3 p.m. $55.00. North Fork Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800; www.livenation.com.TheaterBAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts "Ain't Misbehavin'," musical revue by Murray Horwitz, Richard Maltby, Jr. and Fats Waller. Nov. 3 at 3 and 7 p.m. $40. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.org.BELLPORT Gateway Playhouse "Urban Cowboy," musical based on the film. Sept. 12 through 29. $39. Gateway Playhouse, 215 South Country Road. (631) 286-1133; www.gatewayplayhouse.com.BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts "Gypsy," musical by Arthur Laurent, Julie Styne and Stephen Sondheim. Oct. 28 at 2 and 7 p.m. $42 to $65. Rossini's "Barber of Seville," performed by the Teatro Lirico D' Europa. Nov. 2 at 8 p.m. $35 to $75. Shaolin Warriors, martial arts. Nov. 30 at 8 p.m. $35 to $55. "Annie," musical based upon the Harold Gray comic strip Little Orphan Annie. Dec. 9 at 7 p.m. $45 to $75. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; www.tillescenter.org.CHERRY GROVE, FIRE ISLAND Tides Playhouse Craig Lucas's "The Dying Gaul," presented by the Island Repertory Theater Company. Through Sept. 15. $25. Tides Playhouse, Ocean Walk. (631) 597-9439.DIX HILLS Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts "The Secret Garden," based on the Frances Hodgson Burnett book. Nov. 12 through 14. $15. Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; www.dhpac.org.EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Main Stage Theater "Smoke and Mirrors," comedy by Will Osborne and Anthony Herrera. Through Sept. 2. $18 and $22. Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org.ELMONT BroadHollow Theater Neil Simon's "Rumors," directed by David Dubin. Friday through Sept. 30. Rodgers and Hammerstein's "State Fair." Sept. 8 through 30. Both $18 and $22. BroadHollow Theater, 700 Hempstead Turnpike. (631) 581-2700; www.broadhollow.org.LINDENHURST Studio Theater "Romance in D," comedy directed by Marian Waller, presented by the BroadHollow Theater Company. Through Sept. 16. $18 and $22. Studio Theater, 141 South Wellwood Avenue. (631) 581-2700; www.broadhollow.org.MERRICK The Stage Theater "Putting it Together," a musical revue of the songs of Stephen Sondheim. Through Sept. 16. Kander and Ebb's "Zorba," musical adapted from the novel "Zorba the Greek" by Nikos Kazantzakis. Sept. 22 through Oct. 21. "Over the River and Through the Woods," a musical revue. Oct. 27 through Nov. 25. All: $14 and $18. The Stage Theater, 2222 Hewlett Avenue. (516) 868-6400; www.thestageinmerrick.com.NORTHPORT John W. Engeman Theater Neil Simon's "Barefoot in the Park," romantic comedy. Through Sept. 23. $45. "Jekyll & Hyde," musical based on Robert Louis Stevenson's story. Oct. 4 through Nov. 11. $55. "A Wonderful Life." Nov. 29 through Dec. 30. $55. John W. Engeman Theater, 250 Main Street. (631) 261-2900; www.johnwengemantheater.com.PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three "Big River," musical adaptation of Mark Twain's "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn." Sept. 15 through Oct. 27. Charles Dickens's "A Christmas Carol," adapted by Jeffrey E. Sanzel. Nov. 16 through Dec. 29. All: $12 to $28. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; www.theaterthree.com.SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater "The Lady in Question," satire by Charles Busch. Through Sept. 2. $50 and $65. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. (631) 725-9500; www.baystreet.org.SMITHTOWN Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat," Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice's musical retelling of the biblical story. Through Sept. 9. Stephen Sondheim's "Sweeney Todd," musical thriller about a homicidal London barber. Sept. 22 through Oct. 14. Both: $26 to $30. "Steel Magnolias," play by Robert Harling. Nov. 3 through 25. $24 to $28. "Under The Bridge," Kathy Lee Gifford's adaptation of Natalie Savage Carlson's children's novel. Dec. 1 through 30. $18 to $30. Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts, 2 East Main Street. (631) 724-3700; www.smithtownpac.org.WAINSCOTT East Hampton Studios Staged reading of "The Shakespeare Road," comedy by Ruth Wolff, presented by the Playwrights' Theater of East Hampton. Sept. 2 at 8 p.m. $20; $18, members. East Hampton Studios, 75 Industrial Road. (631) 324-4050; www.easthamptonstudio.com.Museums and GalleriesCOLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum "Pirates!," exhibition that explores the mystery and folklore of pirates using artifacts and art. Through August 2008. $3 and $4; children under 5, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.  Whaling Museum, Route 25A. (631) 367-3418; www.cshwhalingmuseum.org.EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall Works by Billy Sullivan, including paintings, drawings, photography and multimedia installations. Through Oct. 14. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050; www.guildhall.com.EAST HAMPTON Pollock-Krasner House and Study Center "Ary Stillman: The Sayville Drawings, 1950," exhibition of the abstract expressionist's drawings. Through Oct. 27. Pollock-Krasner House and Study Center, 830 Fireplace Road. (631) 324-4929; www.naples.cc.sunysb.edu.EAST HAMPTON The Drawing Room "Jennifer Bartlett, Amagansett Drawings." Through Sept. 30. Hours: Mondays and Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Drawing Room, 16R Newtown Lane. (631) 324-5016; www.drawingroom-gallery.com.EAST ISLIP Islip Art Museum "Free Play," art that explores fantasy. Through Sept. 9. "Making the Most of It," activity turning thrown-away materials into works of art. Sept. 19 through Nov. 19. "Wit on Wry," exhibition of humorous works. Nov. 20 through Jan. 27. Donation: $3. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Islip Art Museum, 50 Irish Lane. (631) 224-5402; www.islipartmuseum.org.GREENPORT Railroad Museum of Long Island "Many Hands," photographs of railroad workers from the past 150 years, with tools and artifacts. Through Oct. 8. $3 and $5. Railroad Museum of Long Island, 440 Fourth Street. (631) 477-0439; www.rmli.org.ORIENT Oysterponds Historical Society "It Is Writ," exhibition of documents from the 17th to 20th centuries. Through Sept. 30. Hours: Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 2 to 5 p.m. Oysterponds Historical Society, Village Lane. (631) 323-2480; www.museumsusa.org.ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art "Latin American Art: Myth and Reality," works by Latin American artists and a look at the ways in which the  development of Latin American art has influenced Latin identity. "Pieter Brueghel the Younger," exhibition of seven paintings. Both through Nov. 4. $8 and $10. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337; www.nassaumuseum.com.SHELTER ISLAND Boltax.Gallery "Sixth Annual Small Works Show," works by East End artists. Through Sept. 30. Hours: Thursdays through Tuesdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Boltax Gallery, 21 North Ferry Road. (631) 749-4062; www.boltaxgallery.com.SOUTHAMPTON Bravura Art and Objects "Letters, Words, Symbols: A Visual Poem by Leonard Barton." Through Monday. Hours: Daily, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Bravura Art and Objects, 22 Nugent Street. (631) 259-2605; www.bravurastyle.com.SOUTHAMPTON Parrish Art Museum "All the More Real: Portrayals of Intimacy and Empathy," work by Joan Goldin, Claudette Schreuders, Diane Arbus, Ross Bleckner and others. Through Oct. 14. "Stirring Up the Waters," works by Alan Shields. Oct. 21 through Dec. 31. "Almond Zigmund: Remembering the Future," exhibition of drawings, sculpture and installations. Oct. 21 through Dec. 31. $5 and $7. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Parrish Art Museum, 25 Job's Lane. (631) 283-2118, Extension 32; www.parrishart.org.STONY BROOK Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages "Spectacular Achievements: Audubon's Animals of North America," exhibition of John James Audubon's lithographic work. "Reflections: The Mary Wilson Supreme Legacy Collection," exhibition exploring the history of the Supremes in 50 gowns. Both through Oct. 21. $3 to $7. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages, 1200 Route 25A. (631) 751-0066; www.longislandmuseum.org.ComedyHARTFORD The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts Julia Sweeney, stand-up. Nov. 10 at 8 p.m. $34. The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue. (860) 987-5900; www.bushnell.org.NEW HAVEN Shubert Theater Capitol Steps, political comedy. Oct. 25 at 7:30 p.m. $22 to $37. Jackie Mason. Dec. 16 at 2 p.m. $38 to $58. Shubert Theater, 247 College Street. (203) 624-1825; www.shubert.com.RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Playhouse Bruce Bennett Nissan Comedy Series: Paula Poundstone. Sept. 8 at 8 p.m. $45. Jackie Mason. Oct. 18 at 8 p.m. $85. Julia Sweeney. Nov. 11 at 8 p.m. $50. "Jewmongous," a comedy song concert with guests. Dec. 20 at 8 p.m. $35. Ridgefield Playhouse, 80 East Ridge Avenue. (203) 438-5795; www.ridgefieldplayhouse.com.TORRINGTON Warner Theater George Carlin. Oct. 19 at 8 p.m. $34.50 to $75. Whoopi Goldberg. Nov. 17 at 8 p.m. $59.50 to $100. Warner Theater, 68 Main Street. (860) 489-7180; www.warnertheatre.org.FilmSTAMFORD Ferguson Library Main Branch Travel and Documentary Films at the Library: "Cirque du Soleil: Journey of a Man," filmed at historical landmarks around the world. Wednesday at noon. "Merida, Cancun and Belize," an exploration of architecture and pyramids. Sept. 12 at noon. "Planet Earth, From Pole to Pole," aerial views of the earth. Sept. 19 at noon. All free. Ferguson Library Main Branch, 1 Public Library Plaza. (203) 964-1000; www.fergusonlibrary.org.TORRINGTON Warner Theater Hollywood Horror Weekend: Children's film festival, including screenings of the films "Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein," "Dracula" and "Frankenstein"; with an exhibition of movie props. Sept. 29 at 11 a.m. $5. Warner Theater, 68 Main Street. (860) 489-7180; www.warnertheatre.org.For ChildrenHARTFORD The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts Robinson and Cole Family Series: "Cirque Dreams: Jungle Fantasy," an international cast of aerialists, contortionists and strongmen. Sept. 18 and 19. $25 to $50. "Dan Zanes and Friends PJ Party!" children's concert. All ages. Sept. 28 at 7 p.m. $25 to $30. Disney's "High School Musical." Oct. 9 through 14. $18 to $70. "The Nutcracker," presented by the Nutmeg Ballet Company. Dec. 8 through 16. $36.50 and $48.50. The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue. (860) 987-5900; www.bushnell.org.NEW HAVEN Center for the Arts at Christ Church Yale Children's Theater Presents: "The Secret Lives of Fairy Tale Characters," directed by Matt Bressler. Ages 4 and up. Dec. 2 and 3. Free. Center for the Arts at Christ Church, 84 Broadway. (203) 787-3195; www.yale.edu/yct.NEW HAVEN Shubert Theater Moscow Cats Theater. Nov. 18 at 1 and 4 p.m. $50 and $60. Shubert Theater, 247 College Street. (203) 624-1825; www.shubert.com.RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Playhouse "Bucky and Gigi: Cirque du Jour," circus for children. $15. Sept. 23 at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. "The Song of Mulan," Chinese folk tale with music. Oct. 27 at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. $15. Russian American Kids Circus. Nov. 10 at 2 p.m. $25. "The Nutcracker," presented by the Ridgefield Conservatory of Dance. Dec. 15 and 16. $25. Ridgefield Playhouse, 80 East Ridge Avenue. (203) 438-5795; www.ridgefieldplayhouse.com.TORRINGTON Warner Theater "Magic Tree House: The Musical," based on Mary Pope Osborne's series of children's books. Sept. 15 through 23. $18.50 to $24.50. "Arthur Live!" Oct. 14 at 3 and 6:30 p.m. $20 to $31.50. Warner Theater, 68 Main Street. (860) 489-7180; www.warnertheatre.org.WALLINGFORD Chevrolet Theater The Wiggles. Oct. 20 at 1:30 and 5 p.m. $23.50 to $40.50. "Playhouse Disney Live!" Nov. 9 and 10.  $22 to $55. Chevrolet Theater, 95 South Turnpike Road. (203) 265-1501; www.livenation.com.Music and DanceHARTFORD New England Dodge Music Center Toby Keith with Miranda Lambert and Flynnville Train, country. Sept. 23 at 7:30 p.m. $38.25 to $78.25. New England Dodge Music Center, 61 Savitt Way. (860) 525-4500; www.livenation.com.HARTFORD The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts "Open House Hartford," with the Connecticut Opera and Full Force Dance Theater. Sept. 9 at 4 p.m. Free. Puccini's "Tosca," presented by the Connecticut Opera, with the Hartford Symphony Orchestra; in Italian with English subtitles. Nov. 1 through Nov. 3. $60 to $270. "Hot Chocolate Soul," rhythm and blues music, comedy and poetry backed by a live band. Sept. 14 through Oct. 12. $24. "Great Joy: A Gospel Christmas" with the Broadway Inspirational Voices. Dec. 17 at 9 p.m. $20 to $42. Open House Hartford: Hartford Symphony Orchestra String Quartet with Leonid Sigal and Michael Pollard, violin; Sharon Dennison, viola; and Jeffrey Kreiger, cello; a program of Haydn, Schubert and others. Sept. 9 at 3 p.m. Free. The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue. (860) 987-5900; www.bushnell.org.LAKEVILLE Argazzi Art The Hevreh Ensemble; jazz, classical and native  American music. Sept. 2 at 5 p.m. $35. Argazzi Art, 22 Millerton Road, Route 44. (860) 435-8222; www.argazziart.com.NEW HAVEN Long Wharf Theater Jazz on the Wharf: Dave Stryker and Steve Slagle Quartet. Oct. 5 at 9 p.m. $22. Stage II: Gene Bertoncini, jazz guitar. Oct. 26 at 9 p.m. $17. Long Wharf Theater, 222 Sargent Drive. (203) 787-4282; www.longwharftheater.org.NEW HAVEN Shubert Theater Hammer of the Gods, Led Zeppelin tribute band. Sept. 29 at 8 p.m. $23 to $60. Count Basie Orchestra. Oct. 7 at 3 p.m. $28 to $48. Linda Eder, pop music. Oct. 24 at 8 p.m. $100 and $150. New Haven Symphony Orchestra Pops, with the Falla Guitar Trio and flamenco dancer Laura Montes. Oct. 26 at 7:30 p.m. $15 and $48. Neil Sedaka, American standards. Nov. 17 at 8 p.m. $53 to $103. "Jingle 'n' Jazz," holiday concert performed by the New Haven Symphony Orchestra Pops. Dec. 14 at 7:30 p.m. $15 to $48. Shubert Theater, 247 College Street. (203) 624-1825; www.shubert.com.RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Playhouse Maxi Priest, reggae. Sept. 16 at 8 p.m. $50. Gaelic Storm, celtic music. Sept. 20 at 8 p.m. $50. Matt Dusk, jazz vocalist. Sept. 25 at 8 p.m. $25. Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes. Sept. 27 at 8 p.m. $60. Sophie B. Hawkins, singer and songwriter. Sept. 29 at 8 p.m. $45. Blackmore's Night, Renaissance folk music. Oct. 5 at 8 p.m. $40. Devon Allman's Honeytribe with Shemekia Copeland, rock. Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $40. Dave Mason and John Mayall, blues and rock. Oct. 8 at 7:30 p.m. $60 and $65. Keb' Mo', blues. Oct. 15 at 8 p.m. $72.50. Danbury Audi Jazz Series: Tower of Power. Oct. 17 at 8 p.m. $60 and $65. Orleans. Oct. 20 at 8 p.m. $55 and $60. Pat Metheny Trio, featuring Christian McBride and Antonio Sanchez. Oct. 22 at 8 p.m. $85 and $95. Spin Doctors. Oct. 26 at 8 p.m. $57.50. Clint Black, country. Nov. 2 at 9 p.m. $125 to $225. Allen Toussaint. Nov. 4 at 8 p.m. $45. Dark Star Orchestra, a Grateful Dead tribute band. Nov. 8 and 9. $52.50. Danbury Audi Jazz Series: Madeleine Peyroux. Nov. 18 at 8 p.m. $56 to $61. Raul Malo,  holiday concert. Nov. 28 at 8 p.m. $35 to $45. Suzanne Vega, folk. Nov. 30 at 8 p.m. $45 to $55. "Sha Na Na Rockin' Christmas Show," a cappella. Dec. 2 at 7 p.m. $55; seniors and students, $40. The Blind Boys of Alabama, holiday concert. Dec. 8 at 8 p.m. $68. Wishbone Ash. Dec. 12 at 8 p.m. $40. The Alternate Routes, local rock. Dec. 21 at 8 p.m. $30. Ridgefield Playhouse, 80 East Ridge Avenue. (203) 438-5795; www.ridgefieldplayhouse.com.TORRINGTON Warner Theater "A Holiday Rock 'n' Roll Celebration," with the Duprees, Kenny Vance and the Planotones, Herb Cox's Cleftones, Earl Lewis and the Channels, and John Kuse and the Excellents. Sept. 15 at 7:30 p.m. $35 and $40. "Keep Italian In Your Heart," songs and performance by Nick Apollo Forte. Oct. 5 at 8 p.m. $25 and $32. The Turtles with Flo and Eddie, the Belmonts and the Ventures. Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $35.50 to $56.50. Arlo Guthrie. Nov. 18 at 7:30 p.m. $29.50 to $50. "The Nutcracker," holiday ballet. Dec. 1 and 2. $20 to $38.50. Vienna Boys' Choir. Dec. 9 at 2 p.m. $24.50 to $50. Warner Theater, 68 Main Street. (860) 489-7180; www.warnertheatre.org.WATERBURY Palace Theater of Connecticut Puccini's "Tosca," presented by the Connecticut Opera, with the Hartford Symphony Orchestra; in Italian with English subtitles. Oct. 28 at 2 p.m. $60 to $270. Palace Theater of Connecticut, 100 East Main Street. (203) 755-4700; www.palacetheater.com.WALLINGFORD Chevrolet Theater Scorpions. Sept. 28 at 8 p.m. $35 and $45. Moe. Sept. 29 at 8 p.m. $29.50. Gov't Mule with Little Feat, Grace Potter and the Nocturnals. Oct. 5 at 7:30 p.m. $30. Tori Amos. Oct. 26 at 7:30 p.m. $38.50 and $49.50. Zappa plays Zappa, a band led by Dweezil Zappa, the eldest son of the composer and musician Frank Zappa. Nov. 1 at 7:30 p.m. $38 and $48.  Jethro Tull. Dec. 1 at 7:30 p.m. $35 and $55. Chevrolet Theater, 95 South Turnpike Road. (203) 265-1501; www.livenation.com.WATERBURY Palace Theater of Connecticut  Michael McDonald. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. $40 to $70. Palace Theater of Connecticut, 100 East Main Street. (203) 755-4700; www.palacetheaterct.org.OutdoorsDANBURY Ives Concert Park "Ives Concert Park Family Fair," with children's activities, artists and musical acts, including a concert by the Ives Festival Orchestra, conducted by Fernando Jimenez. Sept. 23 at 2 p.m. Free. Ives Concert Park, Mill Plain Road. (203) 837-9226; www.ivesconcertpark.com.Spoken WordNEW HAVEN Long Wharf Theater "The Moth," a storytelling event. Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $37. Long Wharf Theater, 222 Sargent Drive. (203) 787-4282; www.longwharftheater.org.STAMFORD Ferguson Library Main Branch  Robert Redford. Wednesday at 12:30 p.m. Free. Ferguson Library Main Branch, 1 Public Library Plaza. (203) 964-1000; www.fergusonlibrary.org.TORRINGTON Warner Theater Wow! Forum: Jennifer Lauck, author of the memoir "Show Me the Way." Sept. 28 at 4:30 p.m. $30. Warner Theater, 68 Main Street. (860) 489-7180; www.warnertheatre.org.TheaterCHESTER Norma Terris Theater "Happy Days: The Musical,"  based on the television series created by Garry Marshall, directed by Gordon Greenberg. Through Sept. 2. $57.50. Norma Terris Theater, 33 North Main Street. (860) 873-8668; www.goodspeed.org.GLASTONBURY Phoenix Theater Company at St. Paul's Hall "Evita," musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice, presented by the Phoenix Theater Company.  Friday through Sept. 29. $18 and $20. Phoenix Theater Company at St. Paul's Hall, 40 Naubuc Avenue. (860) 291-2988.HARTFORD Hartford Stage Thornton Wilder's "Our Town," with Hal Holbrook, directed by Gregory Boyd. Through Oct. 7. $27.50 and $37.50. "Chick, the Great Osram" by David Grimm, based on the life and career of A. Everett "Chick" Austin Jr. Oct. 13 through Nov. 11. $37.50 to $62.50. "A Christmas Carol," by Charles Dickens. Nov. 23 through Dec. 29. $37.50 to $62.50. Hartford Stage, 50 Church Street. (860) 527-5151, www.hartfordstage.org.HARTFORD The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts "Whistle Down the Wind," musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber.  Sept. 25 through 30. $22 to $70. "Beehive: The 60s Musical," with music by the Chiffons, the Supremes, Leslie Gore, Petula Clark, Connie Francis, Tina Turner and Janice Joplin. Oct. 30 and 31. $35 and $40. "Wicked," a musical.  Nov. 14 through Dec. 9. $39 to $100. The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue. (860) 987-5900; www.bushnell.org.HARTFORD TheaterWorks Hartford Alfred Uhry's "Driving Miss Daisy," featuring Rosemary Prinz and Mel Johnson Jr. and directed by Rob Ruggiero. Through Oct. 14. $35 to $45; students, $10. TheaterWorks Hartford, 233 Pearl Street. (860) 527-7838; www.theaterworks.us.HARTFORD The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts Connecticut Opera Presents: Puccini's "Tosca," with the Hartford Symphony Orchestra. All performances feature English subtitles. Nov. 1 through Nov. 3. $60 to $270. The Bushnell Center for Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue. (860) 987-5900; www.bushnell.org.NEW HAVEN Edgerton Park Alexandre Dumas's "The Three Musketeers," directed by James Andreassi. Through Sept 2. $10. Edgerton Park, 75 Cliff Street. (203) 393-1436; www.elmshakespeare.org.NEW HAVEN Long Wharf Theater "The Price," drama by Arthur Miller, directed by Gordon Edelstein. Oct. 24 through Nov. 18. "Black Nativity," drama by Langston Hughes, directed by Sarah Peterson. Dec. 7 through 16. Stage II: "A Prayer for the Enemy," by Craig Lucas. Sept. 12 through Oct. 14. "The Santaland Diaries," by David Sedaris. Dec. 4 through 23. All: $17 to $67. Long Wharf Theater, 222 Sargent Drive. (203) 787-428; www.longwharftheater.org.NEW HAVEN Shubert Theater The Broadway Series: "Gypsy," musical by Arthur Laurent, Jule Styne and Stephen Sondheim. Oct. 9 through 14. $38 to $68. "Irving Berlin's I Love a Piano," musical featuring the music of Irving Berlin. Oct. 18 at 8 p.m. $21 to $46. "The Secret Garden,"  musical based on the novel by Frances Hodgson Burnett. Nov. 9 through 11. $29 to $56. "A Christmas Carol," by Charles Dickens. Nov. 23 through 25. $16 to $36. "Annie," musical based on the Harold Gray comic strip "Little Orphan Annie." Dec. 18 through 23. $38 to $68. Shubert Theater, 247 College Street. (203) 624-1825; www.shubert.com.NEW HAVEN Yale Repertory Theater Shakespeare's "Richard II," directed by Evan Yionoulis. Sept. 21 through Oct. 13. $20 to $58. "Trouble in Mind," by Alice Childress, directed by Irene Lewis. Oct. 26 through Nov. 17. $20 to $58. Molière's "Tartuffe," directed by Daniel Fish. Nov. 26 through Dec. 22. $20 to $58. Yale Repertory Theater, 1120 Chapel Street. (203) 432-1234; www.yalerep.org.NEW MILFORD TheaterWorks "Molly Sweeney," by Brian Friel. Sept. 20 through Oct. 13. $20. "The Philadelphia Story," by Philip Barry, directed by Jane Farnol. Nov. 30 through Dec. 31. $20. TheaterWorks, 5 Brookside Avenue. (860) 350-6863, www.theaterworks.us.RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Theater Barn "Sleuth," by Anthony Shaffer. Friday through Sept. 29. "Lucky Stiff," musical by Stephen Flaherty and Lynn Ahrens. Nov. 16 through Dec. 15. All: $18 and $22. Ridgefield Theater Barn, 37 Halpin Lane. (203) 431-9850; www.theaterbarn.org.TORRINGTON Warner Theater "Proof," drama by David Auburn. Oct. 5 through 14. $20. Kander and Ebb's "Chicago." Nov. 3 through 10. $26. Warner Theater, 68 Main Street. (860) 489-7180; www.warnertheatre.org.WESTPORT Westport Country Playhouse "Sedition," drama by David Wiltse, directed by Tazewell Thompson. Through Sept. 18. $30 to $50. Westport Country Playhouse, 25 Powers Court. (203) 227-4177; www.westportplayhouse.org.Museums and GalleriesBROOKFIELD Brookfield Craft Center "Connecticut Collects Connecticut," with Connecticut-made works from seven Connecticut collectors, presented by the Lynn Tendler Bignell Gallery. Through Sept. 30. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Brookfield Craft Center, 286 Whisconier Road. (203) 775-4526; www.brookfieldcraftcenter.org.CANTON Gallery on the Green "Stillscapes," oil paintings by Ann Getsinger. Through Sept. 9. Hours: Fridays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Gallery on the Green, Route 44 and Down Avenue. (860) 693-4102; www.gotgpawling.com.EASTON Easton Public Library Peter Landa, paintings of the Far East. Through Tuesday. Hours: Mondays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Easton Public Library, 691 Morehouse Road. (203) 261-0134; www.eastonpl.org.ESSEX Garvin Gallery Oil paintings and drawings by Hollis Dunlap, Jack Montmeat and Scott Waddell. Through Sept. 30. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Garvin Gallery, 8 Novelty Lane. (860) 767-9481.FARMINGTON Unionville Museum "The Photography of Carolyn Hitchcock." Through Oct. 31. Hours: Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 2 to 4 p.m. Unionville Museum, 15 School Street. (860) 673-2231; www.unionvillemuseum.org.GREENWICH Bruce Museum of Arts and Sciences "Themes and Symbols in the Decorative Arts of China." Through Sept. 9. "A Taste of Chocolate," a look at the natural and artistic history of chocolate. Through Feb. 24. "Eye Candy: Two Centuries of Chocolate Advertising," vintage posters from the 19th and 20th centuries. Through Dec. 2. $6 and $7; children under 6, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Bruce Museum of Arts and Sciences, 1 Museum Drive. (203) 869-0376; www.brucemuseum.org.LAKEVILLE Argazzi Art "The Copper Field Suite," works by Eric Aho. Through Sept. 30. Hours: Thursdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Argazzi Art, 22 Millerton Road, Route 44. (860) 435-8222; www. argazziart.com.LAKEVILLE Morgan Lehman Gallery Photographs by Judith Belzer and  paintings by Joe Goodwin and Kit White. Through Oct. 7. Hours: Fridays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Morgan Lehman Gallery, 24 Sharon Road, Route 41. (860) 435-0898; www.morganlehmangallery.com.MYSTIC Emporium Gallery Photographs by Maria Dewing Rooney. Through Sept. 10. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Emporium Gallery, 15 Water Street. (860) 536-3891; www.mysticcountry.com.MYSTIC Mystic Seaport "11th Annual Wet Paint Exhibition," maritime paintings. Through Monday. $8.50 and $13. Mystic Seaport, 75 Germanville Avenue. (860) 572-0711; www.mysticseaport.org.NEW CANAAN New Canaan Nature Center "Felix Andreoni: Gardens of Eden," photographs of Gardens of Eden of the New Canaan Nature Center. Through Sept. 20. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. New Canaan Nature Center, 144 Oenoke Ridge. (203) 966-9577; www.NewCannanNature.org.NEW HAVEN The Peabody Museum of Natural History "Seeing Wonders: The Nature of Fly Fishing," includes artifacts and provides an overview of the history of the sport and the techniques of fly fishing and fly tying. Sept. 29 through Feb. 24. $3 to $7. The Peabody Museum of Natural History, 170-210 Whitney Avenue. (203) 432-3775; www.yale.edu/peabody.NEW HAVEN Yale Center for British Art "Jem Southam: Upton Pyne," focusing on six years in the life of a pond near the photographer's home in Exeter, Devon. Through Dec. 30. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Yale Center for British Art, 1080 Chapel Street. (203) 432-2800; www.yale.edu/ycba.NEW LONDON ALVA Gallery "Out of the Ordinary: Dina Varano Jewelry and Rarities Fashions from the New Viet Nam." Through Sept. 15. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. ALVA Gallery, 54 State Street. (860) 437-8664; www.alvagallery.com.NORWALK Rockwell Art Gallery in Norwalk "Old Roads, New Directions," photographic collage and paintings by Paul Mindell. Through Oct. 2. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Rockwell Art Gallery in Norwalk, 235 Main Avenue. (203) 846-2212; www.rockwellartandframing.com.NORWICH Slater Memorial Museum "Sleight of Hands: Contemporary Hooked Rugs." Through Sept. 2. Slater Memorial Museum, 108 Crescent Street. (860) 425-5560; www.norwichfreeacademy.com/museum.OLD LYME Florence Griswold Museum "Picturing Health: Norman Rockwell and the Art of Illustration," drawings. Through Oct. 14. "An American Place: The Art Colony at Old Lyme." Through Dec. 30. $4 to $8. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Florence Griswold Museum, 96 Lyme Street. (860) 434-5542; www.flogris.org.OLD LYME Lyme Art Association Gallery "Lyme Light," a group show featuring local artists. Through Sept. 8. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Lyme Art Association Gallery, 90 Lyme Street. (860) 434-7802; www.lymeartassociation.org.RIDGEFIELD Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum "Neil Jenney: North America," paintings. Through Monday. "Mary Judge: Studies in Segmented Form," sculptures, drawings and prints. Through Monday. "Michael Somoroff: Illumination I," installation. Through Oct. 14. "Charlotte Schulz: An Insufficiency in Our Screens," collection of two and three dimensional charcoal drawings. Through June. $4 and $7; members, teachers and children under 18, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, 258 Main Street. (203) 438-4519; www.aldrichart.org.SOUTH NORWALK 22 Haviland Street Gallery "Land Marks," mixed media works by Torrance York, Susan McCaslin, Cate Leach and Lina Morielli. Through Sept. 30. 22 Haviland Street Gallery, 22 Haviland Street. (203) 852-6727.WEST HARTFORD The Jewish Historical Society of Greater Hartford "Sophie Tucker: Last of the Red Hot Mamas," exhibition about the life of the vaudeville performer. Through Nov. 30. Hours: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 1 to 4 p.m. The Jewish Historical Society of Greater Hartford, 333 Bloomfield Avenue. (860) 727-6171.WESTPORT Rockwell Art Gallery Paintings and drawings by William Claps. Friday through Oct. 16. Reception: Sept. 8 at 6 p.m. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Rockwell Art Gallery, 15 Myrtle Avenue. (203) 227-1800; www.rockwellartandframing.com.WILTON Rockwell Art Gallery in Wilton "More Travels with David Kalman," photographs and panoramas. Wednesday through Oct. 9. Reception: Sept. 14 at 6 p.m. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Rockwell Art Gallery, 379 Danbury Road. (203) 762-8311; www.rockwellartandframing.com/wilton.WOODBURY Fenn Gallery "Atmosphaera," paintings by Tyson Skross and Karen Green Recor. Through Sept. 16. Hours: Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Fenn Gallery, 345 Main Street South. (203) 263-3449; www.fenngallery.com.COMEDYENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center Chelsea Handler, stand-up. Sept. 14 at 8 p.m. $27. "Last Comic Standing Live." Sept. 29 at 8 p.m. $25 to $65. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org.HASBROUCK HEIGHTS Bananas Comedy Club Patty Rosborough, stand-up. Friday and Sept. 8. $12 and $15. Billy Garan, stand-up. Sept. 14 and 15. $12 and $15.   Rich Vos, stand-up. Sept. 21 and 22. $20. Alonzo Bodden, stand-up. Sept. 28 and 29. $20. Bananas Comedy Club, 283 Route 17 South. (201) 727-1090; www.bananascomedyclub.com.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts  John Pinette, stand-up. Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $35. D. L. Hughley, actor and comedian. Oct. 26 at 8 p.m. $37 to $47. "Manhattan Comedy Night." Nov. 23 at 8 p.m. $20. "An Evening with Jerry Stiller." Nov. 29 at 8 p.m. $47 to $57.  Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater "Laughing Liberally," political comedy show. Sept. 8 at 8 p.m. $15 to $35. Lewis Black, stand-up. Oct. 14 at 8 p.m. $45 to $65. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; www.statetheatrenj.org.RED BANK Count Basie Theater Sinbad, stand-up. Sept. 21 at 8 p.m. $29.50 and $49.50. Louis C. K., stand-up. Sept. 29 at 8 p.m. $28 to $58. Ron White, stand-up. Oct. 4 at 8 p.m. $29.50 to $75. John Pinette. Oct. 7 at 7:30 p.m. $40. "Last Comic Standing Live." Oct. 28 at 7:30 p.m. $25 to $39.50. Colin Quinn and Caroline Rhea. Nov. 15 at 8 p.m. $20 to $39.50. Whoopi Goldberg. Nov. 28 at 8 p.m. $58 to $175. Lewis Black. Nov. 29 at 8 p.m. $25 to $75. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org.SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center "Mama's Night Out," group comedy show. Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. $28 and $35. Julia Sweeney, stand-up. Nov. 9 at 8 p.m. $32 and $40. Alan Zweibel, stand-up. Dec. 14 at 8 p.m. $28 to $35. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; www.sopacnow.org.TRENTON Patriots Theater At the War Memorial D. L. Hughley. Oct. 4 at 8 p.m. $28 to $39. "Last Comic Standing Live." Nov. 17 at 8 p.m. $25 to $50. Patriots Theater at the War Memorial, Memorial Drive. (609) 984-8400; www.thewarmemorial.com.FILMFORT LEE Borders Store "Forbidden Hollywood Part 2 Fall Festival," weekly screenings of classic films. Oct. 3 through 31; Wednesdays at 7 p.m. Free. Borders bookstore,  1642 Schlosser Street. www.fortleefilm.org.FORT LEE Fort Lee Historic Park "Budd Schulberg Film Retrospective: Fall Cliffhanger Film Festival." Oct. 6 through 27. $5. Fort Lee Historic Park, Hudson Terrace. www.fortleefilm.org.NEW BRUNSWICK New Jersey Media Arts Center The New Jersey Film Festival, Fall 2007. Friday through Nov. 16. $4 to $10. New Jersey Media Arts Center, 72 Lipman Drive. www.njfilmfest.com.SPRINGFIELD Donald B. Palmer Museum "Hepburn and...," biweekly noon Tuesday film series focusing on Katharine Hepburn. Through Oct. 30. Free. Donald B. Palmer Museum, 66 Mountain Avenue. (973) 376-4930; www.springfieldpubliclibrary.com/museum.htm.FOR CHILDRENEAST RUTHERFORD Continental Airlines Arena Sesame Street Live: "When Elmo Grows Up," children's musical. Sept. 19 through 22. $15 to $55. "Disney's High School Musical: The Ice Tour." Nov. 20 through 25. $15 to $80. Continental Airlines Arena, 50 Route 120. (201) 507-8900; www.meadowlands.com.ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center "Arthur Live!," children's performance. Oct. 28 at 1 and 4 p.m. $15 to $35. Shangri-La Chinese Acrobats. Nov. 3 at 1 and 4 p.m. $15 to $35. "Robin Hood," children's play by Deb Roberts. Nov. 11 at 1 and 4 p.m. $8 to $20. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org.MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University Rebecca Frezza and Big Truck,  family concert. Sept. 15 at 1 p.m. $15. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112; www.montclair.edu/kasser.MONTCLAIR Luna Stage "Treasure Island," musical by Mark Baron and Ian August, adapted by Paul Whelihan; presented by Running Rabbit Family Theater. Nov. 23 through Dec. 16. $14. Luna Stage, 695 Bloomfield Avenue. (973) 744-3309; www.lunastage.org.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts  "Rock the House!," with Everlife & Jump Five; teenage concert. Nov. 3 at 7 p.m. $25. "The Rainbow Fish," children's musical. Nov. 4 at 1:30 and 4 p.m. $12. Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts , 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center Family Fun Day, with the Big Apple Circus. Sept. 15 at 11 a.m. Free. "Beauty and the Beast: A Gothic Romance," family ballet. Oct. 6 at 2 p.m. $20 and $22. "A Year with Frog and Toad," children's musical. Oct. 12 through 14. $36 and $39. Rodgers and Hammerstein's "Sound of Music," presented by the Salzburg Marionette Theater. Nov. 30 through Dec. 2. $44 and $49. Family Time: "The Spirit of Kwanzaa," with the Seewe African Dance Company. Dec. 15 at 2 p.m. $20 and $22. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org.RED BANK Count Basie Theater Dan Zanes, children's musician. Oct. 6 at 11 a.m. $18.50 and $26. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org.SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center Shangri-La Chinese Acrobats. Nov. 1 at 7 p.m. $28 and $38. Hot Peas 'N Butter, family musicians. Nov. 4 at 3 p.m. $18. Brady Rymer, children's musician. Dec. 16 at 3 p.m. $18. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; www.sopacnow.org.TRENTON Patriots Theater At the War Memorial "The Sunny Side of the Street," family concert by John Lithgow. Nov. 17 at 11 a.m. $15 to $50. Patriots Theater at the War Memorial, Memorial Drive. (609) 984-8400; www.thewarmemorial.com.WEST LONG BRANCH Pollak Theater, Monmouth University "Great Scott, It's Magic," children's comedy magic show, presented by Running Rabbit Family Theater. Sept. 16 at 2 p.m. $12. Pollak Theater, Monmouth University, 400 Cedar Avenue. (732) 571-3400; www.monmouth.edu.MUSIC AND DANCEASBURY PARK Asbury Park Boardwalk Bob Berger Band. Monday, 2 to 5 p.m. Free. Asbury Park Boardwalk, Ocean Avenue. (732) 775-3533; www.asburyevents.com.AVALON First United Methodist Church of Avalon Duo Fresco, classical guitar and viola. Sept. 8 at 7 p.m. $15 to $20. First United Methodist Church of Avalon, 34th and Dune Drive. www.accesstoart.org.EAST RUTHERFORD Continental Airlines Arena Genesis. Sept. 27 at 8 p.m. $50 to $229. Continental Airlines Arena, 50 Route 120. (201) 507-8900; www.meadowlands.com.ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center "Rite of Strings," with Stanley Clarke, Al Di Meola and Jean-Luc Ponty. Sept. 28 at 8 p.m. $29 to $85. Johnny Mathis. Oct. 4 at 8 p.m. $39 to $150. Engelbert Humperdinck. Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $45 to $125. Tango Buenos Aires. Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. $27 to $87. Aretha Franklin. Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $49 to $185. Chris Botti with Chelsea Palermo. Oct. 14 at 7 p.m. $29 to $89. David Cassidy. Oct. 20 at 8 p.m. $30 to $90. Donizetti's "Lucia di Lammermoor," presented by Verismo Opera. Nov. 4 at 4 p.m. $25 to $45. The Commodores. Nov. 24 at 8 p.m. $39 to $110. "The Nutcracker," presented by the New Jersey Ballet. Dec. 1 and 2. $20 to $50. "Christmas From Dublin," with the Three Irish Tenors. Dec. 8 at 8 p.m. $28 to $85. Dickens's "Christmas Carol," performed by Theaterworks USA. Dec. 9 at 1 and 4 p.m. $10 to $28. Handel's "Messiah," with the New Jersey Philharmonic Orchestra. Dec. 15 at 8 p.m. $20 to $50. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org.FREEHOLD Freehold Hall of Records Summer concert series: Series finale, with the Nerds. Sept. 27 at 7:30 p.m. Free. Freehold Hall of Records, 1 East Main Street. (732) 946-2711.HAMILTON Grounds for Sculpture Richie Havens. Sept. 15 at 8 p.m. $25 and $30. Grounds for Sculpture, 18 Fairgrounds Road. (609) 586-0616; www.groundsforsculpture.org.MARLTON Lenape Regional Performing Arts Center Holiday concert with Linda Eder. Dec. 15 at 8 p.m. $65. Lenape Regional Performing Arts Center, 130 Tomlinson Mill Road. (856) 983-3366; www.sjtheater.com.MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University The Shanghai Quartet. Sept. 16 at 3 p.m. $15. Daniel Bernard Roumain, composer and choreographer. Sept. 26 at 3 p.m. Free. The Orchestra of St. Luke's. Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $15. "Blind Date," by Bill T. Jones, with the Arnie Zane Dance Company. Oct. 25 at 6 p.m. $15. "As I Was Saying," by Bill T. Jones, with the Arnie Zane Dance Company. Oct. 27 at 8 p.m. $15. "A Quarreling Pair," premiere of the dance by Bill T. Jones, with the Arnie Zane Dance Company. Nov. 30 through Dec. 2. $15. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112; www.montclair.edu/kasser.MOORESTOWN Perkins Center for the Arts Iain Campbell Smith, singer-songwriter. Sept. 28 at 8:30 p.m. $13. Perkins Center for the Arts, 395 Kings Highway. www.perkinscenter.org.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts   Liza Minnelli. Sept. 28 at 8 p.m. $100 to $175. Mary Black, folk. Oct. 11 at 8 p.m. $32 to $47. David Crosby and Graham Nash. Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. Sold out. Keb' Mo'. Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $32 to $47. Tango Buenos Aires. Oct. 20 at 8 p.m. $32 to $47. Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons. Oct. 24 and 25. $55 to $75. The Ahn Trio, lecture and concert. Oct. 28 at 2 p.m. $32 to $47. Michael Bolton. Nov. 6 at 8 p.m. $65 to $75. "Big Bad Voodoo Daddy's Wild and Swingin' Holiday Party." Dec. 6 at 8 p.m. $37 to $47. "A Classic Christmas," with Wynonna. Dec. 7 at 8 p.m. $60 to $75. Clay Aiken, holiday concert. Dec. 13 at 8 p.m. $55 to $95. Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater "Discover Artistic India," music and dance with Dr. Balamurali Krishna, Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty and others. Sept. 22 at 7 p.m. $13 to $48. New Jersey Jazz Festival, Sept. 28 through 30: John Pizzarelli Quartet, jazz, with Jessica Molaskey. Sept. 28 at 8 p.m. $25 to $60.  Cedar Walton Trio. Sept. 29 at 5 p.m. $25 and $50. The Paquito D'Rivera Quartet, with Claudio Roditi. Sept. 29 at 9 p.m. $35 and $60.   Jon Faddis Quartet, with Jimmy Heath. Sept. 30 at 3 p.m. $35 and $60.  Anúna, Celtic chorale. Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $30 to $55. "An Afternoon of Tchaikovsky," with Olga Kern and the Edison Symphony Orchestra. Oct. 14 at 2 p.m. $20 to $100. Tango Buenos Aires. Oct. 19 at 8 p.m. $30 to $50. Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet. Nov. 2 at 8 p.m. $25 to $55. Russian dance festival. Nov. 10 at 8 p.m. $30 to $50. Shaolin Warriors, martial arts. Nov. 15 at 8 p.m. $25 to $55.  Kirov Orchestra. Nov. 29 at 8 p.m. $60 to $90.  "Clay Aiken Christmas," with the Chelsea Symphony Orchestra. Dec. 6 at 8 p.m. $65 to $100. Graham Lustig's "Nutcracker," with the American Repertory Ballet. Dec. 22 and 23. $25 to $45. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; www.statetheatrenj.org.NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center  Ballet Folklórico de México. Oct. 26 at 8 p.m. $21 to $79. St. Petersburg Philharmonic. Oct. 28 at 3 p.m. $21 to $79. Momix, dance. Nov. 3 and 4. $41 and $45. Ahmad Jamal and Ramsey Lewis. Nov. 4 at 5 p.m. $18 to $71. Puccini's "Tosca," presented by Teatro Lirico d' Europa. Nov. 10 at 8 p.m. $23 to $89. Jethro Tull, rock. Nov. 28 at 8 p.m. $35 to $95. Itzhak Perlman, violinist. Dec. 9 at 2:30 p.m. $29 to $115. Boston Pops Esplanade Orchestra. Dec. 16 at 7 p.m. $29 to $115. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org. PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center Ballet Folklórico de México. Sept. 29 at 7:30 p.m. $39 to $52. Joshua Redman and Brad Mehldau, jazz. Oct. 15 at 7:30 p.m. $42 to $55. Richard Goode, pianist. Oct. 16 at 8 p.m. $42 to $55. Andrew Manze, violin, and Richard Egarr, piano, sonatas. Oct. 29 at 8 p.m. $37 to $50. Tango Buenos Aires. Oct. 30 at 8 p.m. $35 to $48. Georgian State Dance. Oct. 31 at 8 p.m. $37 to $50. Graham Lustig's "Nutcracker," by the American Repertory Ballet. Nov. 17 through  25. $29.50 to $39.50. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; www.mccarter.org.RED BANK Count Basie Theater Michael McDonald. Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. $48 to $125. Wayne Newton. Sept. 26 at 8 p.m. $50 and $80. Engelbert Humperdinck. Oct. 5 at 8 p.m. $35 to $150. Dave Mason and John Mayall, rock and blues. Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $29.50 and $39.50. Queen Latifah. Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. $42 to $100. Aretha Franklin. Oct. 11 at 8 p.m. $45 to $250. The Golden Boys: Frankie Avalon, Fabian and Bobby Rydell. Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. $45 to $150. David Crosby and Graham Nash. Oct. 17 at 8 p.m. $32 to $100.   Gounod's "Roméo et Juliette," presented by Dicapo Opera Theater. Oct. 20 at 8 p.m. $19.50 to $50. Ricky Skaggs and Bruce Hornsby. Oct. 26 at 8 p.m. $27 to $60. Philadanco. Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. $19.50 to $39.50. Jay Black. Nov. 17 at 8 p.m. $28 to $100. Annual Brian Setzer Orchestra "Christmas Extravaganza." Nov. 20 at 8 p.m. $48 to $150. "Christmas from Dublin," with the Three Irish Tenors. Nov. 30 at 8 p.m. $25 to $45. Vienna Choir Boys. Dec. 6 at 7:30 p.m. $25 to $75. "Clay Aiken Symphonic Christmas 2007." Dec. 11 at 8 p.m. $38.50 to $125. "Holiday Doo Wop Spectacular," with the Duprees, Kenny Vance and the Planotones, the Cleftones, Earl Lewis and the Channels and the Excellents. Dec. 14 at 7:30 p.m. $30 and $40. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org.SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center Camerata Nordica, Swedish chamber orchestra. Oct. 2 at 7:30 p.m. $8 to $25. Chanticleer, all-male vocal ensemble. Oct. 7 at 7 p.m. $35 and $45. "Discover Fanfares," by the Discovery Orchestra. Oct. 21 at 3 p.m. $40. Dionne Warwick. Oct. 25 and 26. $48 to $98. Flamenco Vivo of Spain. Nov. 11 at 7 p.m. $38 and $45. Madeleine Peyroux. Nov. 13 at 8 p.m. $38 to $68. John Waite. Nov. 17 at 8 p.m. $38 and $48. Graham Lustig's "Beauty and the Beast," presented by the American Repertory Ballet. Dec. 12 at 8 p.m. $28 to $35. Freddy Cole, jazz pianist; holiday concert. Dec. 15 at 8 p.m. $38 and $48. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; www.sopacnow.org.TEANECK Mexicali Blues Cafe David Nelson and Friends. Friday at 9 p.m. $25. Mexicali Blues Cafe, 1409 Queen Anne Road. (201) 833-0011; www.mexicalibluescafe.com.TRENTON Patriots Theater At the War Memorial Michael McDonald. Sept. 21 at 8 p.m. $30 to $100. Peter Nero and the Philly Pops. Sept. 29 at 8 p.m. $30 to $75. Ron Rhodes, pipe organist. Oct. 14 at 3 p.m. $15. Stephanie Mills and the Whispers. Oct. 26 at 8 p.m. $35 to $75. Patriots Theater at the War Memorial, Memorial Drive. (609) 984-8400; www.thewarmemorial.com.OUTDOORSHILLSBOROUGH Duke Farms  Fun at Duke Farms: "Moonlight Walk on the Wild Side," walking tour. Through Oct. 27. $2 to $5. Bike Tours. Sept. 15 through Oct. 20. $5 and $10; free to children in bike seats. "Autumn Migration: Neotropical Songbirds," nature walk exploring migrant songbirds. Sept. 8 and 9. $15. Duke Farms, 80 Route 206 South. (908) 722-3700; www.dukefarms.org.SPOKEN WORDHAMILTON Grounds for Sculpture New Jersey Storytelling Festival, with more than 40 storytellers. Sept. 30, noon to 6 p.m. Free with grounds admission: $6 to $10. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Grounds for Sculpture, 18 Fairgrounds Road. (609) 586-0616; www.groundsforsculpture.org.MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University "Spoken Steps," lecture, music and dance by Bill T. Jones. Sept. 19 at 6 p.m. Free. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112; www.montclair.edu/kasser.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts  David Sedaris, reading and book signing. Oct. 4 at 8 p.m. $37 to $42.  Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts , 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.THEATERCAPE MAY Victorian Lace Inn "Tales of the Victorians," storytelling and refreshments by the East Lynne Theater Company. Thursday at 4 p.m. $7; children under 13, free. Victorian Lace Inn, 901 Stockton Street. (609) 884-5898; www.eastlynnetheater.org.EAST RUTHERFORD Continental Airlines Arena "Walking With Dinosaurs: The Live Experience," historical stage show with robotics and puppetry. Oct. 3 through 6. $27 to $87. Continental Airlines Arena, 50 Route 120. (201) 507-8900; www.meadowlands.com.FREEHOLD Center Playhouse Signature Series: "Visiting Mr. Green,"  by Jeff Baron. Oct. 19 through Nov. 18. $22 and $24. Center Playhouse, 35 South Street. (732) 462-9093; www.centerplayers.org.MADISON F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater "The Time of Your Life," drama by William Saroyan; presented by the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey. Tuesday through Sept. 30. $28 to $68. "Blood and Roses: Shakespeare's Henry VI," adapted and directed by Brian B. Crowe, presented by the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey. Oct. 9 through Nov. 11. $28 to $68. "The Blue Bird," adapted and directed by Bonnie J. Monte, from the play by Maurice Maeterlinck; presented by the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey. Nov. 27 through Dec. 31. $28 to $68. F. M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. (973) 408-5600; www.njshakespeare.org.MILLBURN Paper Mill Playhouse "Happy Days: The Musical," by Garry Marshall and Paul Williams, adapted from the television series. Sept. 26 through Oct. 28. $29.25 to $96.25. "Meet Me in St. Louis," musical by Hugh Martin, Ralph Blane and Hugh Wheeler. Nov. 7 through Dec. 16. $29.25 to $96.25. Paper Mill Playhouse, 3 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; www.papermill.org.MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University "Trojan Women: An Asian Story," adapted by Aida Karic from Euripides; in Korean with English subtitles.  Oct. 18 through 21. $15. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112; www.montclair.edu/kasser.MONTCLAIR Luna Stage Arthur Miller's "Death of a Salesman." Oct. 11 through Nov. 11. $16 to $30. Luna Stage, 695 Bloomfield Avenue. (973) 744-3309; www.lunastage.org.MONTCLAIR Montclair State University L. Howard Fox Studio Theater "Les Liaisons Dangereuses," adapted by Christopher Hampton from the novel by Pierre Choderlos de Laclos. Oct. 18 through 28. $15. "Katrina," premiere of the drama by Suzanne Trauth and Lisa Brenner. Dec. 5 through 9. $15. L. Howard Fox Studio Theater, Montclair State University. (973) 655-5112; www.peakperfs.org.MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater "The Owl and the Pussycat," comedy by Bill Manhoff. Sept. 20 through Oct. 14. $15 to $30. "The Musical Comedy Murders of 1940," by John Bishop. Nov. 15 through Dec. 9. $15 to $30. Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3706; www.morrismuseum.org.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts  "In the Mood: A 1940s Musical." Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. $32 to $47. "A Christmas Carol," musical based on the novel by Charles Dickens. Dec. 9 at 1:30 and 4 p.m. $12.  Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts , 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.NEW BRUNSWICK Crossroads Theater Melba Moore: "Sweet Songs of Soul," autobiographical musical. Sept. 28 through Oct. 7. $40 to $55. "Emergence-See!," play by Daniel Beaty. Nov. 28 through Dec. 9. $40 to $55. Crossroads Theater, 7 Livingston Avenue. (732) 545-8100; www.crossroadsnb.com.NEW BRUNSWICK George Street Playhouse "The Sunshine Boys," comedy by Neil Simon. Oct. 16 through  Nov. 11. $28 to $64.  "Doubt," drama by John Patrick Shanley. Nov. 27 through Dec. 23. $28 to $62.  George Street Playhouse, 9 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7717; www.georgestplayhouse.org.NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater "Gypsy," musical by Arthur Laurents, Jule Styne and Stephen Sondheim. Oct. 26 and 27. $40 to $65. "Mark Twain Tonight!," one-man performance by Hal Holbrook. Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. $25 to $55. "Annie," musical. Dec. 14 through 16. $40 to $65. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; www.statetheatrenj.org.NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center "Cookin' at the Cookery: The Music and Times of Alberta Hunter," musical by Marion J. Caffey. Nov. 23 through 25. $36 and $39. "Cirque Dreams Jungle Fantasy," circus. Nov. 23 through 25. $18 to $71. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org.NUTLEY Nutley Little Theater "The Sunshine Boys," comedy by Neil Simon. Friday through Sept. 22. $12. Nutley Little Theater, 47 Erie Place (off Brookfield Avenue). (973) 667-0374; www.nutleylittletheatre.com.OAKLYN Ritz Theater "Titanic," musical by Maury Yeston. Oct. 20 through Nov. 19. $7 to $30. Ritz Theater, 915 White Horse Pike. (856) 858-5230; www.ritztheatreco.org.PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center "Stick Fly," drama by Lydia Diamond. Friday through  Oct. 14. $12 to $49. Molière's "Tartuffe," translated by Richard Wilbur. Oct. 7 through 28. $15 to $55. Dickens's "Christmas Carol," adapted by David Thompson. Dec. 2 through 23. $31 to $55. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; www.mccarter.org.RED BANK Count Basie Theater  "West Side Story," musical by Leonard Bernstein, presented by Phoenix Productions. Nov. 3 through 11. $22 to $29. Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats. Nov. 18 at 3 p.m. $15 to $22.50. "A Christmas Carol," musical presented by Troupe America. Dec. 1 at 3 and 8 p.m. $15 to $35. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org.SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center "Nephew Fred," comedy by Chris Aurilio and Peter Donahue, presented by Seton Hall. Dec. 1 through 9. $8 to $15. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; www.sopacnow.org.STONY POINT Penguin Repertory Company "Tour de Farce," comedy by Philip LaZebnik and Kingsley Day. Through Sept. 9. $15 and $30. Penguin Repertory Company, 7 Crickettown Road. (845) 786-2873; www.penguinrep.org.WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College "Falsettos," musical comedy by William Finn and James Lapine. Sept. 28 through Oct. 7. $10 to $16. "Clue: The Musical," presented by the Yardley Players. Oct. 19 through 28. $10 to $16. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org.MUSEUMS AND GALLERIESBELMAR Pinnacle Galleries "Made in the USA: Movies, Music and Advertising," vintage prints and posters. Through Sept. 8. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Pinnacle Galleries, 912 Belmar Plaza. (888) 590-9226.CAPE MAY Memucan Hughes House Annual designer show house, with self-guided tours, presented by the Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts. Through Oct. 14. $20. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Mondays through Fridays, 7 to 9 p.m. Memucan Hughes House, 608 Hughes Street. (609) 884-5404; capemaymac.org.CLINTON Hunterdon Museum of Art "Gregory Perkel: Manuscripts of the Cardboard Culture," mixed-media show, with an annual national juried print exhibition, and "Wally Barnette: Recent Work." Through Sept. 16. "Kerr Grabowski: Art to Wear." Sept. 23 through Nov. 11. $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415; www.hunterdonartmuseum.org.LINCROFT Monmouth Museum Emerging Artist Series: Photographs by Paul Lenz. Through Sept. 9. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Monmouth Museum, Brookdale Community College, Newman Springs Road. (732) 747-2266; www.monmouthmuseum.org.MAPLEWOOD Mona Lisa Gallery and Framing "Pushing the Boundaries," annual summer salon show. Through Sept. 8. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m. Mona Lisa Gallery and Framing, 168 Maplewood Avenue. (973) 762-5588; www.monalisaframing.com.MORRIS TOWNSHIP Morris Museum "Stepping Out in Style: Outerwear of the Last 150 Years." Tuesday through March 2008. "Silent Spring: Andy Warhol's Endangered Species and Vanishing Animals." Tuesday through Jan. 6. "Pilgrimage: Photographs by Steve McCurry." Sept. 18 through Jan. 27. $5 to $7; free on Thursdays from 1 to 8 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700; www.morrismuseum.org.NEW BRUNSWICK Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum "A New Reality: Black-and-White Photography in Contemporary Art." Through Nov. 25. "The National Association of Women Artists Collection at Rutgers: Acquisitions 2003-2007." Dec. 9 through March 2008. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, 71 Hamilton Street. (732) 932-7237; www.zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu.NEWARK Aljira, A Center for Contemporary Art "E8," group exhibition. Through Sept. 29. $5. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Aljira, A Center for Contemporary Art, 591 Broad Street. (973) 622-1600; www.aljira.org.NEWARK The Newark Museum "Mexicana: Discovering Mexican Popular Arts, 1919-1950." Through Nov. 25. "India: Public Places, Private Spaces," video and photography. Sept. 19 through Jan. 6. "Feasting with Family and Friends: Christmas in the Ballantine House." Nov. 23 through Jan. 6. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., October through June; noon to 5 p.m., July through September. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6493; www.newarkmuseum.org.PRINCETON Princeton University Art Museum "Beloved Daughters: Photographs by Fazal Sheikh." Sept. 29 through Jan. 6. "El Maestro Francisco Toledo: Art from Oaxaca, 1959-2006." Oct. 20 through Jan. 6. "Ansel Adams, Moonrise: Print the Legend." Oct. 26 through Jan. 13. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Princeton University Art Museum, Nassau and Witherspoon Streets. (609) 258-3788. www; princetonartmuseum.org.RED BANK Celebration Gallery Artwork from the animated film "Ratatouille." Through Sept. 8. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Celebration Gallery, 30 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-8489; www.cel-ebration.com.SKILLMAN Montgomery Center for the Arts "African-American Focus," African-American artists from the area. Sept. 7 through Oct. 19. Reception: Sept. 16, 1 to 4 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Montgomery Center for the Arts, 124 Montgomery Road. (609) 921-3272; www.mca1860.org.SUMMIT Visual Arts Center of New Jersey "Peter Williams: Artistic Repair," examination of American culture. Sept. 8 through Nov. 25. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Visual Arts Center of New Jersey, 68 Elm Street. (908) 273-9121; www.njcva.org.
