You could tell this wasn't a normal dance party because the music kept doing something strange: stopping. The record would spin backward, the dancers would cheer, the D.J. would pause, and then the song would start again, from the top. This crowd-teasing technique — the rewind — has long been a major element of reggae concerts and parties. And as a few hundred dancers were reminded on Friday night, it also lives on in the reggae-influenced electronic genre known as dubstep, which has sprouted around London over the last few years.The location was Love, a subterranean nightclub in Greenwich Village. The party was Dub War, a monthly get-together for the obsessed and the curious. And Friday's headliner was D1, a dubstep producer and D.J. from Fulham, in West London; the gig was billed as his American debut.On paper the labyrinth of British dance genres and microgenres can seem hopelessly complicated. But at Love D1 emphasized the basics, and he got a big cheer every time he dropped one of the monstrous bass lines that dubstep is known for. Although "bass line" scarcely seems like the right term: the timbres are scrambled and the tones are obliterated; instead of a melodic groove, you get a huge, serrated blob.Dubstep is one more aftershock of an explosion that happened in the early 1990s, when British producers drew from electronic dance music and dance-hall reggae to create a furiously syncopated genre called jungle — and, later, drum and bass. Since then the sound has been mutating, spinning off new genres as producers and D.J.s change their priorities: hot declaration versus cool abstraction; voices versus beats; fits and starts versus nonstop dancing.Earlier this decade grime emerged, with dirty bass lines and sparse beats that left plenty of room for rappers. Dubstep is nimbler and lighter, with skittering beats that hint at 1990s-era syncopation without sounding busy. One dubstep producer, Burial, has converted some American listeners with an excellent pair of murky, melancholy albums that seem designed for bedroom (or iPod) listening.By contrast, the party on Friday showed off the genre's gregarious side, thanks partly to those frequent rewinds. The party's hosts were a pair of D.J.s, Joe Nice and Dave Q, and an M.C., Juakali, who stayed in the booth during D1's set, providing public-service announcements ("Bass line!") and hospitable encouragement ("D1!").D1 specializes in moody, bittersweet tracks that sometimes emphasize dubstep's debt to house music. Last year he released "Trial Run" (Tempa), a six-track EP that included "Mind and Soul," which already feels like a dubstep classic. It's based on pitched-up snippets of "Give It Back," by the Atlanta-based R&B singer Gaelle, with brisk drums that keep switching in and out of half-time. (Like many dubstep tracks, this one makes it difficult to say which is the true tempo.)"Mind and Soul" is light and sublime and (thanks to those sped-up vocals) girly, but on Friday night, D1 mainly stuck to heavier, tougher tracks, which seemed to please the crowd. Often the warped bass lines pulled the tracks toward hard techno, even as Juakali's patter underscored the link to dancehall reggae. And by the end of the set, the term dubstep was starting to seem too big, or too vague. This is cellular music, and it grows by dividing. How long will dubstep stay whole?You've probably never heard "Heartbreak Hotel" performed with the stark, no-frills approach that the British singer Barb Jungr brings to it in her show  "No Regrets: The Remarkable Barb Jungr" at the Metropolitan Room. Stripping it of its hubba-hubba and bump-and-grind beat, with nary a "baby" to be heard, she forces the song to stand on its own as a surreal, minimalist, blues-flavored lament, whose last word "die" is hissed.That performance on Thursday was typical of Ms. Jungr's radical approach to songs by Bob Dylan, Richard Thompson, Ray Davies and other songwriters whose work you think you know from recordings in which the arrangements appear indivisible from your sense of the material. Arranged for voice and accordion (played by her excellent pianist and sideman, Charlie Giordano), her version of Bob Dylan's "I'll Be Your Baby Tonight" treated the song as a funny, personal, fragrantly sexy prelude to bedroom delights.Ms. Jungr, a professed Dylan fanatic, said on Thursday that she imagined its setting to be the Deep South, a region she admitted she had seen only in films and never visited. The three other Dylan numbers in the set included an intense reading of "I Want You," a fervent gospel "Ring Them Bells" and a delightfully happy-go-lucky "If Not for You."A tragic clown, Ms. Jungr,  wearing a goofy grin, wove humor and high drama into an emotional roller coaster ride that had me laughing out loud one minute and gasping at her theatrical bravura the next. She introduced Thursday's opening number, her original "Beautiful Life," with a humorous warning: "It's a happy song. Enjoy it. It's the only one in the show." Doom and gloom followed, but there were many intervals of sunlight.Demonstrating formidable vocal flexibility, she took obscure songs by Brownie and Ruth McGhee ("Rainy Day") and Eric Bibb and Levi B. Saunders ("Heading Home") from smoky,  reflective plateaus to feral emotional peaks, and then with perfect  timing retreated downhill.Her newly translated English renditions of Brel's "Ne Me Quitte Pas" ("Don't Leave Me Now") and Piaf's "Non, Je Ne Regrette Rien" ("No Regrets") were accompanied by sharp comments about their fuzzy earlier translations and the dubious notion of singing pop songs in a language the audience doesn't understand. There is a huge difference in tone, she pointed out, between "If you go away" and "Don't leave me."That's the kind of acute intelligence Ms. Jungr brings to pop songs, along with the talent of a complete entertainer. A fully realized one-woman show, "No Regrets" belongs on a small Off Broadway stage.PATTY LARKIN"Watch the Sky"  (Vanguard)Patty Larkin plays the folky circuit solo with her acoustic guitar, but she doesn't rule out anything in the studio. She made "Watch the Sky" by herself: picking and sliding on acoustic and electric strings, stacking up vocal harmonies, running drum loops for rhythm tracks, often doubling as her own sound engineer. Working in privacy, she wrote richly contemplative tracks about solitude and togetherness, open vistas and spiritual quests.Most of the songs are pensive, with a deep stillness at their core. The slow-motion ballad "All Souls Day" has an eerie simplicity: just a baritone guitar behind a duo of Ms. Larkin's vocals, with the two vocals converging for lines like "one eye open dear/one last kiss." Her voice can be breathy and confiding, tinged with the blues or infused with Joni Mitchell's pearly depth. "Walking in My Sleep" is paced by a soul backbeat, as Ms. Larkin sings in a sultry daze about apparitions.Ms. Larkin is deeply attuned to the resonances of her many instruments. A few meditative chords ripple across acoustic and electric guitars in "Cover Me" and "Traveling Alone," and float over a dance beat in "Phone Message." Countless little slide and steel-guitar licks ricochet around conga drums and filtered choruses of her voice in "Beautiful." Ms. Larkin can be folky in benedictions like "Dear Heart" or "Waterside," which quietly asks, "Please remember me standing by the waterside," while notes from a toy organ conjure a horn section. Using modest means, Ms. Larkin gets profound results. JON PARELESRAHEEM DEVAUGHN"Love Behind the Melody" (Zomba/Jive)"I go by the name of the R&B hippie, neo-soul rock star Raheem DeVaughn." That's how Mr. DeVaughn announces himself at the beginning of his second album, "Love Behind the Melody." And for some listeners, that introduction may raise a serious question: "Are you sure you want to remove the selected songs from your iTunes library?"It's worth clicking "cancel," though, because those opening words are happily misleading. Mr. DeVaughn isn't really a hippie or a rock star; he's a slow-jam specialist with a mellow voice and a restrained approach. He doesn't (or perhaps can't) fill his songs full of ostentatious ad-libs, so he sticks to the tunes, even when he's ascending into falsetto to underscore a point. Like many R&B singers — most of them, perhaps — he positions himself as a soulful alternative to the competition, a sensitive hunk out for something more spiritual than a mere hookup. (He's not like those other guys. Honest.)And he sounds pretty convincing, lovingly paying tribute to "that old four-letter word," or using a placid hip-hop beat for "Woman," in which he explains how he feels about the same. (In a word: good.) But he sounds even better when the plot thickens in "She's Not You." It seems "you" might be learning a bit too much about "she": "Even if I took her seven digits, trying to be slick, she's not you/If I crossed the line, laid  with her one time, she won't do."If this album isn't quite the R&B triumph it wants to be, you can blame some meandering tracks produced by Kenny Dope, from the pioneering dance-music duo Masters at Work. And "Customer," which beats a fast-food metaphor into the ground ("You can have me supersized/With some lovin' on the side"), shows why mere mortals should avoid imitating R. Kelly. More often, though, Mr. DeVaughn borrows judiciously from Prince, Marvin Gaye and others, relying on his voice to keep the songs on track. Even when he's promising to "shut the club down," his delivery promises something calmer and sweeter than a wild night out. KELEFA SANNEH DRIVE-BY TRUCKERS"Brighter Than Creation's Dark" (New West)Through a half-dozen studio albums since 1998 the Drive-By Truckers have revealed a mission: come up with a song for every kind of person in the modern American South. There are 19 more on their new album, "Brighter Than Creation's Dark," including family men, criminals, drunks, workers, addicts, soldiers, even musicians. The music is a wide-ranging idea of Southern rock that draws on not only the amalgams made by bands like Lynyrd Skynyrd and the Allman Brothers, but also on their sources and roots. Over the past decade songs from the Drive-By Truckers have juxtaposed observation and fiction, autobiography and allegory, but not a lot of ego.The band was founded by the songwriters Patterson Hood and Mike Cooley. They make the songwriter the lead singer, so the band regularly switches between the high, weary voice of Mr. Hood and the growly drawl of Mr. Cooley. On this album another singer and songwriter steps forward: Shonna Tucker, who has been the band's bassist since 2003. (Her ex-husband, Jason Isbell, left the Drive-By Truckers and started a solo career last year.) On its way to depicting the entire South, with Ms. Tucker the band now has a gutsy voice representing women too. She works up to muscular roots-rock in "Home Field Advantage."Instead of aiming for a particular trademark sound, the Drive-By Truckers have always let the song dictate the style. They can be noisy and turbulent, as in "That Man I Shot," a soldier's postbattle reactions set to a feedback-drenched Crazy Horse stomp, or steadfast and long-suffering, as in the album's other Iraq war song, "The Home Front," Mr. Hood's sketch of a soldier's family.They can be calm in pedal-steel-topped ballads like "Bob" ("He always had more dogs than he ever had friends") and "Daddy Needs a Drink." They can play straightforward country, like "Lisa's Birthday" ("It's a good thing her dancing shoes don't run on gasoline"), or nearly avant-garde rock, like the piano drone of "You and Your Crystal Meth."This is a typically crowded Drive-By Truckers album; it doesn't need all 19 songs. But the overload is part of the point. In this band's America all kinds of characters show up. JON PARELESThat the musicians of the New York Philharmonic play so well for Riccardo Muti cannot be explained simply by their well-established respect for this eminent conductor's skills. Their relationship has that inexplicable chemistry that sometimes just happens, as was clear from the ecstatic performance of Scriabin's weirdly fascinating "Poem of Ecstasy" that ended the orchestra's program on Thursday night.But another chemically charged relationship was introduced on this occasion. The pianist Leif Ove Andsnes was the soloist in a vibrant, brilliant performance of Brahms's Piano Concerto No. 2 in B flat. This was the first time this youthful Norwegian pianist and this veteran Italian maestro had worked together, and they seemed inspired by each other's artistry.This imposing 45-minute, four-movement concerto, a relatively new work for  Mr. Andsnes, is typically milked for all its might. In Sviatoslav Richter's classic 1960 recording with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and Erich Leinsdorf, the work emerges as dense, volatile and terrifying. Most pianists consider the piano part among the hardest in the standard repertory: thick with leaping chords, awkward runs and almost impossible scurrying figurations in double thirds.Yet Brahms began sketching the piece while on vacation in sunny Italy in 1878. For all its storm and stress, he considered it a far more genial, pastoral and, in the finale, joyous piece than his turbulent First Concerto in D minor.Mr. Andsnes, an Apollonian pianist, brought out what could be considered the score's Italianate qualities. He could not have had a better ally in this than Mr. Muti. They set a tempo in the first movement that kept the music flowing but allowed room for lyrical grace. When Mr. Andsnes broke into the tempestuous cadenza right after the first serene statement of the main theme by the French horn, every note mattered. The playing was clear, crisp, incisive, yet never aggressive.In passages where Mr. Andsnes could highlight the lyricism of the music, he did so, supported by Mr. Muti. But when things turned agitated, as in the outburst of pummeling 16th-note piano chords in a furious F minor episode, Mr. Andsnes played with uncanny clarity and nimble articulation. Most pianists strive for sheer, driving power. The excitement here came from  athletic vigor and accuracy.The performance of the Scherzo conveyed the music's shifting moods, from passionate stirrings to lyrical pathos. Yet the pianist and the conductor kept the music surging in a coolly steady tempo. Textures were lucid; syncopated rhythms were true. In the Andante the Philharmonic's principal cellist, Carter Brey, played the solo theme with wistful, flowing beauty, never allowing the music to dawdle or turn sentimental.In the  dreamy development section  when the piano leads the orchestra on a pensive journey through remote harmonic regions, Mr. Andsnes brought Impressionistic colorings and rare delicacy to the music.  The pianist and the conductor found an impish spirit in the pugnacious surprises that keep cropping up.Many pianists make a point of showing what a struggle it takes to perform this work. Mr. Andsnes played the  piece while seated calmly, never bothering to unbutton his stylish suit jacket.After intermission Mr. Muti took the audience into another realm. As a prelude to the Scriabin, he led Liszt's seldom-heard late symphonic poem "From the Cradle to the Grave," mystical music steeped in Wagner.Mr. Muti is an astute  Scriabin interpreter. For all the exotic allure and cosmic frenzy in  the "Poem of Ecstasy," he made this unhinged, riveting 25-minute work seem like the missing link between Wagner and Ravel. The piece ended in a din of pungently dissonant glory. Imagine an intergalactic "Great Gate of Kiev."On Saturday morning, Bobby's Happy House, a music store in Harlem that opened in 1946, was in a state of chaos.The store's owner, 91-year-old Bobby Robinson, who was wearing a dark blue suit and his trademark black fedora, seemed bewildered as he surveyed his store. Albums were stacked on the floor, photographs of him with Fats Domino, James Brown and others had been pulled from the walls and the store's glass display cases contained only a few scattered CDs and cassette tapes.A few hundred feet southeast, at the Harlem Record Shack on 125th Street, an employee with a handmade sign was urging passers-by to sign a petition to keep that store from being evicted.Inside, the voice of the store's owner, Sikhulu Shange, 66, rang through the Record Shack as he vowed not to go easily, even though he was under a court order to leave within a few weeks, after 36 years in business there.Mr. Robinson and Mr. Shange, who have been friendly rivals for Harlem's music dollars for almost two generations, are on the cusp of being forced out of business here within weeks of each other as Harlem continues its uneasy transition from being a haven for some of the city's poorest residents to a place where apartments selling for $1 million and tripling commercial rents have become unremarkable occurrences.Bobby's Happy House, on Frederick Douglass Boulevard near 125th Street, is closing on Monday, Martin Luther King Jr. Day. Mr. Shange has been given until the end of March to vacate his store.Each man represents a distinct generation of black men who arrived in Harlem as young men seeking to contribute to a neighborhood they had long heard about and had admired.Mr. Robinson, originally from South Carolina, came after World War II. He speaks in the language of that time, using words like "colored," which has long been retired.Mr. Shange, who arrived from South Africa in the 1960s, came of age during that era's tradition of protest. He wears dashikis and repeats words like "empowerment."Each man said the runaway pace of change in the neighborhood during the past few years was unlike anything they had seen before."Everything you see here, I built," Mr. Robinson said, waving his arm around his store as friends and family members boxed up decades of mementos. "How do you think I feel?"On the other hand, Mr. Shange, who was at the center of an eviction battle in the 1990s that culminated in gunfire and an arson attack that killed eight people, left no doubt about his feelings. He was angry."There was a time when everybody was running away from Harlem, but we stayed, keeping the culture alive," he said, as shoppers surveyed the small store's African, gospel, jazz and R&B selections that are kept in locked glass cases. "We don't have nothing to show for being in the community all these years and keeping it beautiful. Tourists are not coming here to see McDonald's and Burger King. They are coming here to see black culture."The two stores have survived so long, the owners say, because they offer services and products customers cannot get anyplace else.At Bobby's Happy House, those services included recording albums onto cassettes or CDs for customers and allowing visitors to pull up a plastic chair and chat with Mr. Robinson, who was a noted record producer. His work included Wilbert Harrison's No. 1 hit "Kansas City" in 1959 and groundbreaking hip-hop songs by Doug E. Fresh and Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five during the late 1970s.The inspiration for the name of Bobby's Happy House, which has had various names over the years, was a doo-wop song Mr. Robinson wrote for Lewis Lymon & the Teenchords in 1956 called "I'm So Happy," a hit in the Northeast. (Lewis Lymon was the younger brother of Frankie Lymon, best known for a song with the Teenagers, "Why Do Fools Fall in Love?").At the Record Shack, customers have found in Mr. Shange, a former dancer, an authoritative source on American soul music and hard-to-find African music. In a nod to their customers, both stores continued to sell records and cassette tapes, formats most other stores have not sold for years."A lot of old people are ashamed to go to a store and ask them for cassettes," said Mr. Robinson's daughter, Denise Benjamin, who has managed Bobby's Happy House for her father in recent years.Both Mr. Robinson and Mr. Shange said it was unclear what role the downturn in the record music industry has had on their stores, but HMV and the Wiz, two large retailers that sold CDs and other items, have closed stores on 125th Street during the past few years.Mr. Robinson and Mr. Shange said they had been caught off-guard by their evictions and the transformation of the neighborhood. Each has a different landlord. Within a few blocks of their stores are more than a dozen construction sites for projects that include a 19-story hotel, office towers and luxury co-ops and condominiums.Once the last of the old records have been cleared from Bobby's — and other tenants in the block-long building have moved out — the new owners, a partnership of the Sigfeld Group and Kimco Realty Corporation, have said they will tear down the structure and replace it with a four-story office building, including retail space on the ground floor. None of the old tenants, including Mr. Robinson, said they had been invited to set up shop in the new building. Several store owners have filed a lawsuit contesting their evictions.Ms. Benjamin said family members decided not to join the lawsuit because they wanted to save their money to find a location nearby.Representatives for Sigfeld and Kimco, which bought the building for $30 million in August, did not respond to phone calls and e-mail messages seeking comment. Mr. Shange's landlord, the United House of Prayer for All People, won a court order forcing Mr. Shange to leave the store empty and "broom clean" by March 31. The church has not announced its plans for the space, and a church representative at its headquarters in Washington declined to comment. David M. Grill, the attorney representing the church in New York, did not return a phone call and an e-mail message seeking comment.Mr. Shange, who has been paying $4,500 a month — about $500 more a month than Mr. Robinson at Bobby's Happy House —  said that he was willing to pay more, but that the church, which is above the store, had refused to negotiate.Mr. Shange said the store was organizing a protest rally on Sunday at 11 a.m., when many of the church's parishioners will be arriving for services.A flier at his store advertising the rally reads: "Protest Greedy Landlords! We will not be moved from Harlem!!! We must reclaim, preserve and protect our historic black community. If we do not, no one will!!!"Eight thousand people have signed a petition opposing his store's eviction, he said.When Mr. Shange faced eviction in 1995 during a dispute with a different landlord, who held the sublease for the Record Shack, weeks of demonstrations over the plans of the landlord, who was white, to evict the black-owned store took on a racial tinge. The dispute ended after a protester walked into the landlord's store, which was next to the Record Shack, carrying a handgun and a container of paint thinner. After shooting and wounding four people, he set the store ablaze before shooting himself. He and seven other people died in the blaze.Mr. Shange said he expected the coming demonstration to be peaceful, just as others in support of his store have been in recent months.Unlike Mr. Shange, Mr. Robinson's daughter said she did not particularly object to the changes occurring in Harlem, which have included new bank branches and grocery stores."I don't mind change, but when people have had to endure everything — and you know if you've been here 60 years you've endured a lot," she said, her voice trailing off. "This is everything to him."POPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.MAVIS STAPLES The civil rights movement never ended for Mavis Staples, who has been politicizing gospel music since her days as the teenage lead singer of the Staple Singers. That group's best-remembered songs, including "I'll Take You There," a No. 1 hit in 1972, preached hope and tolerance amid racism and injustice. The Staple Singers traveled and performed with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and when Dr. King was assassinated in 1968, they released the song "Long Walk to D.C." as a memorial. Now a husky-voiced 68, Ms. Staples, above,  is as powerful a singer as ever, and she has never taken her eyes off the prize.Her latest album, "We'll Never Turn Back" (Anti-), is a gorgeous and determined collection of "freedom songs" — classic protest and inspirational material — like "This Little Light of Mine" and "I'll Be Rested," reworked with gritty funk. Hope remains the central message, but her anger is palpable in "99 and  1/2," which she updates with references to Hurricane Katrina: "It's the 21st century/It feels like it's 1960/Broken levees, lying politicians."She makes two appearances at the Brooklyn Academy of Music for Martin Luther King's Birthday: on Monday morning she takes part in the annual tribute to Dr. King, and on Tuesday night she performs in concert. (Monday at 10:30 a.m., Tuesday at 8 p.m., 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, 718-636-4100, bam.org; free on Monday; $20 to $40 on Tuesday.) BEN SISARIO ★ APES & ANDROIDS (Saturday) If Queen had been an underground rock band from New York, it might have sounded something like Apes & Androids, whose style is as entertainingly bombastic — slick harmonies, horn sections — as it is simple and visceral. The band plays the Mercury Lounge in celebration of its new album, "Blood Moon." With Die Romantik and Sigmund Droid. At 8:30 p.m., 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; sold out. (Ben Sisario)AU REVOIR SIMONE, APRIL MARCH (Friday) The three young women of Au Revoir Simone could be the terminally depressed daughters of the members of Human League, singing of "empty beds and lonely dinners" over milky, wistful synth-pop. Elinor Blake, a k a April March, is a California-born sweetheart who loves everything about the giddy early-1960s French pop known as ye-ye, from the breathy tunes to the satiny outfits.  At 8:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $13. (Sisario) ★ BLONDE REDHEAD, RAVEONETTES (Saturday) Its days of spindly, atonal guitar webs apparently behind it, Blonde Redhead has been making lusher, more cottony music, as if finally realizing that amplifiers have reverb buttons. The Raveonettes, from Denmark, are obsessed with all the sexy, silly rock of pre-hippie America: motorcycle vamps, Buddy Holly melodies and Sam Cooke chain gangs. They blare through  lean, minimalist tunes with a noisy nihilism derived from  the Jesus and Mary Chain. With School of Seven Bells. At 7 p.m., Terminal 5, 610 West 56th Street, Clinton, (212) 260-4700, terminal5nyc.com; $25. (Sisario)CHRIS BROWN, BOW WOW (Wednesday) A couple of years ago a teenage Chris Brown arrived with one of the most polite come-ons of the hip-hop era: "I don't know your name, but excuse me, Miss/I saw you from across the room." Badder now at 18, he still can't resist being a sweetie. In his new video, "Kiss Kiss," he plays both the friendly nerd who picks up a girl's books and the bully who assaults his rival with a flying tackle. For this tour he's teamed with the 20-year-old rapper Bow Wow, likewise trying to outgrow his former role as an under-age star. With Soulja Boy and Shop Boyz. At 7:30 p.m., Prudential Center, 165 Mulberry Street, Newark, (973) 854-8760, prucenter.com; $48.75 to $102.75. (Sisario)CITIZENS BAND (Monday) This cabaret-pop collective was founded after the 2004 elections, ostensibly to voice political dissent. But its lavish live shows also suggest the usual motivations for dressing up in decadent, sexy costumes and striking impudent poses. Its latest show, "The Panic Is On," takes place in a bomb shelter, and features Nina Persson of the Cardigans as a guest. At 9 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $25. (Sisario)JUDY COLLINS (Tuesday through Thursday) What Ms. Collins brings to a song, whether she wrote it or not, is perspective. You have the sense of a woman standing alone in the night air, gazing at a star and directing a beam of psychic energy into the cosmos. Or maybe she is the receiver of this cool, steady light; it cuts both ways. (Through March 1.) At 8:45 p.m., Café Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com; $125 and $175. (Stephen Holden)KEVIN DEVINE, JEALOUS GIRLFRIENDS (Saturday) Mr. Devine, once of the band Miracle of 86, has carved out a niche as a sharp and unassuming singer-songwriter in the Elliott Smith mold. The Jealous Girlfriends float through soft and erotic clouds of guitar and keyboards that can turn grungy and turbulent; the soft and erotic stuff is what's gotten their music on "Grey's Anatomy."  At 7 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Sisario)TIM FITE (Saturday) A lo-fi lone wolf from Brooklyn, Tim Fite is a cultural gadfly operating in the zone of provocation where folk and hip-hop intersect. At 11:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street,  at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $12. (Sisario)GROWING, I.U.D. (Thursday) Growing, a duo from Brooklyn, casts its spell through glacially slow, feedback-heavy drones. Also on the bill is I.U.D., featuring Lizzie Bougatsos of the experimental New York band Gang Gang Dance. With Vorhees. At 8 p.m., Death by Audio, 49 South Second Street, between Wythe and Kent Avenues, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, toddpnyc.com;  $8. (Sisario)ISAAC HAYES (Saturday) From his days as a songwriter and producer at Stax/Volt to the orchestrated funk of his album "Hot Buttered Soul" to his former cartoon role  in "South Park," Mr. Hayes has adapted his deep voice and down-home charm to every era. At 7:30 and 10:30 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $40. (Jon Pareles)★ LINCOLN CENTER'S AMERICAN SONGBOOK (Wednesday and Thursday) Lincoln Center's flagship pop series is dedicated to crossing genres and experimenting with the idea of a modern American canon. Its 10th season begins on Wednesday with the operatic soprano Deborah Voigt, who has been Isolde and Sieglinde but here will sing Broadway numbers. Thursday it's Lori McKenna, a singer-songwriter from Massachusetts, who made an unusual entry into mainstream country when Faith Hill sang one of her songs. Wednesday at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. ($45 to $90), Thursday at 8:30 p.m. ($35 to $70), Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org. (Sisario)MISSION OF BURMA (Saturday) In the early 1980s this innovative and widely influential Boston band brought sharp, brainy guitar minimalism to American post-punk, and since reuniting in 2002, it still plays with passion and smarts. With Jonathan Kane, a New York avant-garde mainstay whose droning, bluesy incantations channel both John Lee Hooker and La Monte Young.  At 8 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $20. (Sisario)MOONEY SUZUKI (Friday) One of the sharpest and loudest garage-rock bands in town — in sound as well as in dress — the Mooney Suzuki draws on the frantic energy of mid-'60s British mod groups like the Who, as well as the bruising blues-rock of Led Zeppelin. With the Ettes, Silver Rockets and Nouvellas. At 7:30 p.m., Luna Lounge, 361 Metropolitan Avenue, at Havemeyer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (212) 307-7171, lunalounge.com; $8. (Sisario)★ NEUROSIS, MASTODON (Thursday) The good thing about experimental heavy-metal groups is that no matter how out there they get, they stick to the rudiments of riffing, screaming and pummeling. For this first of two shows at the Brooklyn Masonic Temple in Fort Greene, Neurosis, a longtime "post-metal" band from Oakland, Calif., teams with Mastodon, an Atlanta group so brainy that it wrote a concept album based on "Moby-Dick." With U.S. Christmas. At 8 p.m., 317 Claremont Avenue, at Lafayette Street, brooklynmasonictemple.com; $25. (Sisario)NEW YORK GUITAR FESTIVAL (Thursday) In the second of this impressive festival's four tributes to country giants, Jorma Kaukonen, Larry Campbell, Jim Lauderdale and Alvin Youngblood Hart play songs by Merle Haggard. In addition to this concert, the festival has an array of afternoon and early-evening shows at the Apple Store in SoHo and the Monkey, a surround-sound performance space in Chelsea. Full schedule: newyorkguitarfestival.org. At 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330, kaufman-center.org; $35. (Sisario)RASCAL FLATTS (Friday) The sweetest, most tooth-rotting bubblegum is always the best. This pop-country trio   specializes in a sentimentality   that has to be admired for sheer shamelessness, as in "Skin (Sarabeth)," an after-school special with a waltz beat about a girl with leukemia: "It would be a mistake/For someone to take/A girl with no hair to the prom." (Her date shaves his head in sympathy.) With the "American Idol" alumna Kellie Pickler. At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $51.50 to $91.50. (Sisario)ROSEBUDS (Friday) It's been called "couplecore": indie-rock bands centered on a romantic pair. Over nostalgic synth-pop, Ivan Howard and Kelly Crisp of the Rosebuds mix mushy sentiments with thoughts about adult responsibilities and the long challenge of staying happy together. With Tigercity and the Loners. At 9 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $14. (Sisario)GIL SCOTT-HERON (Sunday) This singer, songwriter and poet, influential on hip-hoppers, soul singers and many others, has had a rough time with drugs and courtrooms since 2001, and he was paroled last May after serving almost a year in jail. In September he successfully came back to performing; here's to more of the same. At 7:30 and 10 p.m., SOB's, 200 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $25. (Ben Ratliff)SANDY STEWART AND BILL CHARLAP (Friday and Saturday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The style of this mother-son team is minimalist. Where conventional voice-and-piano duos follow a formula in which the music swells at dramatic moments, Ms. Stewart and Mr. Charlap use pauses, silences and hushed moments to bring out the interior lives of songs. They present a new show, "Make Me Rainbows," through Jan. 26. At 9 p.m., with additional shows on Friday and Saturday at 11:30, Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331, algonquinhotel.com; $65 cover; $30 minimum; dinner is required at the early shows on Friday and Saturday. (Holden)  ★ ELAINE STRITCH (Friday and Saturday) Amazingly lithe at 82, Ms. Stritch revives "Elaine Stritch at Liberty," the Broadway show she wrote with John Lahr that won her a special Tony Award in 2002. This salty, autobiographical reminiscence, marinated in gin, may be the ultimate example of amusing after-dinner remarks, sprinkled with songs and a few dance steps, that transcend the occasion. At 8 p.m., Café Carlyle, at the Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com; $125 and $175; dinner is required. (Holden)SUPER FURRY ANIMALS (Wednesday) This Welsh band plays wonderfully overwrought pop, cramming together Beach Boys' melodies, zooming space-rock, noisy punk and some penitent country-folk. At 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; sold out. (Sisario)SWEET HONEY IN THE ROCK (Sunday) Gospel, blues, African rhythms, protest songs and the joys of harmony are the enduring touchstones of this all-female a cappella group, which never forgets to leaven righteousness with pleasure. Tickets are only $9 for this Sunday afternoon family concert at Carnegie Hall. At 2,  (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org. (Pareles)RHONDA VINCENT (Monday) Ms. Vincent sings, plays mandolin and pushes bluegrass in modern directions without forgetting standards like "Muleskinner Blues." She plays at Joe's Pub in celebration of a new album, "Good Thing Going" (Rounder). At 9:30 p.m., 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $25. (Pareles)ANDREW W. K. (Sunday) Somewhere between noise-punk bubblegum and motivational oratory gone awry, Andrew W. K.'s absurdly high-energy party metal ("Party Til You Puke") comes across as either self-aware performance art or simply the most lunkheaded anthems to debauchery ever recorded. He plays a solo piano show on Sunday at Pianos with the aptly named Endless Boogie. At 10 p.m., 158 Ludlow Street, near Rivington Street, Lower East Side, (212) 505-3733, pianosnyc.com; $10. (Sisario)JAZZ Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.★ GABRIEL ALEGRÍA AFRO-PERUVIAN SEXTET (Sunday and Tuesday) On his sharp new album, "Nuevo Mundo" (Saponegro), the trumpeter Gabriel Alegría teases out affinities between modern jazz and the African-influenced coastal music of his native Peru. His aptly named group benefits from the presence of Freddy Huevito Lobatón, a percussionist as well as a dancer in the zapateo style. Sunday at 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $20, with a two-drink minimum. Tuesday at 7 p.m., Cachaça, 35 West Eighth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 388-9099, cachacajazz.com; cover, $10, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen)ANIMAL FORUM (Sunday) This young collective has an almost gleeful approach to free improvisation; its members are the Canadian saxophonist Peter Van Huffel, the Swiss trombonist Samuel Blaser and the Israeli drummer Ziv Ravitz. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $8, with a one-drink minimum.(Chinen)JONATHAN BATISTE TRIO (Friday) Jonathan Batiste hails from a tradition of poised and percussive New Orleans pianists, and fits the bill on both counts. He also has a blatant crush on Thelonious Monk, a solid rhythm section and a relevant self-released album: "Live in New York: At the Rubin Museum of Art." At 7 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen)KARL BERGER QUINTET (Saturday) The vibraphonist and pianist Karl Berger pays a rare visit from Woodstock with a quintet featuring Ingrid Sertso on vocals, Kenny Wessel on guitar, Kermit Driscoll on bass and Tim McLafferty on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)DAVID BERKMAN GROUP (Monday) Mr. Berkman is a capable pianist, and his compositions tend to be both smart and sturdy. His post-bop quartet consists of the alto saxophonist Antonio Hart, the bassist Ugonna Okegwo and the drummer Otis Brown III. At 10:30 p.m. and midnight, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20.(Chinen)CINDY BLACKMAN QUARTET (Monday) An explosive yet mindful drummer, Cindy Blackman leads a funk-seasoned post-bop band with J. D. Allen on saxophones, Carlton Holmes on keyboards and George Mitchell on bass. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)BROOKLYN JAZZ UNDERGROUND FESTIVAL (Friday and Saturday) The Brooklyn Jazz Underground is a coalition of younger artists united by aesthetics as well as geography; this is its second annual festival aimed at those who still seek out their music fix in the West Village. Friday's offerings include working bands led by the tenor saxophonists Dan Pratt and Jerome Sabbagh, and the drummer Sunny Jain; Saturday night's headliners are the bassist Alex Cuadrado, the drummer Ted Poor and the violinist Tanya Kalmanovitch. At 8 and 10 p.m. and midnight, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village; smallsjazzclub.com or  brooklynjazz.org; cover, $20. (Chinen)EDMAR CASTANEDA TRIO WITH JOE LOCKE (Tuesday and Wednesday) The imaginative Colombian harpist Edmar Castaneda augments his attentive rhythm section with a special guest: Joe Locke, a vibraphonist capable of balancing showmanship with heart. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)KRIS DAVIS QUARTET (Wednesday) Kris Davis, an up-and-coming pianist and composer, convenes a patiently exploratory group with Jeff Davis, her husband, on drums; Ron Horton on trumpet; and Eivind Opsvik on bass. At 10 p.m., Barbès, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; suggested donation, $10. (Chinen)JOEY DEFRANCESCO TRIO (Thursday) The Hammond B-3 organ doesn't have a more effective evangelist than Joey DeFrancesco, whose soulful working trio features Jake Langley on guitar and Byron Landham on drums. (Through Jan. 27.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Chinen)ELDAR (Tuesday and Wednesday) The gifted young pianist Eldar Djangirov has a recent album, "re-imagination" (Sony), that reflects his interest in electro-acoustic fusion; it will be among the contenders for best contemporary jazz album at the 2008 Grammy Awards. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $25 at tables, $15 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)ELIANE ELIAS TRIO (Tuesday through Thursday) "Something for You: Eliane Elias Sings and Plays Bill Evans," released on Blue Note this week, puts Ms. Elias, a Brazilian pianist and vocalist, in the good company of the bassist Marc Johnson and the drummer Joey Baron. She understands the harmonic language of Bill Evans, perhaps the most important prerequisite for the task. (Through Jan. 27.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)JOHN ESCREET GROUP (Monday) Lately, John Escreet, an English keyboardist in his mid-20s, has begun finding his place in the New York jazz landscape. Here he leads a cadre of his peers, most of whom are a few steps of ahead of him: the trumpeter Ambrose Akinmusire, the alto saxophonist Lars Dietrich, the bassist Matt Brewer and the drummer Tyshawn Sorey. At 7 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; no cover. (Chinen)AL FOSTER BAND (Friday and Saturday) The well-traveled drummer Al Foster has a lithe touch, ideal for modern jazz and more than suitable for funk; this engagement is timed to coincide with his birthday, and will no doubt feel like a celebration. At 8 and 10 p.m. and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)FREESTYLE JAZZ (Sunday) In the first set of this avant-garde series, the trumpeter Ben Holmes leads a pugnacious quintet; the second set involves a quartet anchored by the drummer Andrew Drury, with Peter Evans on trumpet, Briggan Krauss on alto saxophone, and Chris Speed on tenor saxophone and clarinet. At 7 and 9 p.m., Jimmy's Restaurant, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006, freestylejazz.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)★ CURTIS FULLER BAND (Friday through Sunday) Mr. Fuller, a trombonist with a full tone, a bluesy sensibility and a celebrated history in hard bop, enlists resourceful sidemen for a belated birthday engagement. Among them are the drummer Carl Allen, the bassist Rufus Reid, and on trumpet, either Wallace Roney (Friday and Saturday) or Randy Brecker (Sunday). At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)RODNEY GREEN QUARTET (Friday and Saturday) Rodney Green is a dynamic and intuitive drummer who has made his name backing post-bop heavyweights, like the bassist Ron Carter and the pianist Mulgrew Miller, who join him here. Lage Lund, an introspective but impressive young guitarist, rounds out the group. At 9 and 11 p.m., Cachaça, 35 West Eighth Street, West Village, (212) 388-9099, cachacajazz.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)JOEL HARRISON STRING CHOIR (Saturday) The compositions of the drummer Paul Motian can convey shadowy depths even as they echo the simplicity of folk songs. Here they benefit from arrangements by the guitarist Joel Harrison for a string sextet that includes Mr. Harrison's fellow guitarist Liberty Ellman, the violist Mat Maneri and the cellist Dave Eggar. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum.(Chinen)KONCEPTIONS AT BISCUIT (Tuesday) This installment of the Brooklyn series features two bands led by drummers: the Dan Weiss Group, an ensemble partly informed by Indian classical traditions, and Third Wheel, which features the trumpeter Ralph Alessi and the guitarist Ben Monder,  along with the versatile drummer Ted Poor. At 8:30 and 9:45 p.m., Biscuit BBQ, 230 Fifth Avenue, at President Street, Park Slope,  (718) 399-2161, myspace.com/konceptions; cover, $5, with a $6 minimum.(Chinen)LATIN JAZZ GIANTS (Tuesday through Thursday) This project of the percussionist Johnny Rodríguez Jr. features former members of the Tito Puente Orchestra and a repertory drawn from the glory days of the Palladium Ballroom. The giants in the title may be present only in spirit, but that shouldn't pose much of a problem. (Through Jan. 26.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30 and $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)LIONEL LOUEKE (Wednesday) Mr. Loueke, a guitarist and vocalist, favors a beguiling form of modern jazz informed by the music of his West African homeland, Benin. His excellent trio, with the bassist Massimo Biolcati and the drummer Ferenc Nemeth, appears on two strong albums for the ObliqSound label, and on a forthcoming Blue Note debut. At 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $15, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen) ★ BRAD MEHLDAU (Saturday and Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Mehldau has established himself as one of the standout jazz voices of his generation, partly through a recent run of intensely lyrical solo piano recitals. His solo concert on Saturday is sold out, but there should be a chance next week to see his exceptionally good trio, which features Larry Grenadier on bass and Jeff Ballard on drums. Saturday at 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, 40 Irving Place, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680, pscny.org; sold out. Tuesday through Thursday at 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)  255-4037, villagevanguard.com. (Through Jan. 27.) Cover, $20, with a $10 minimum (limited admission to 11 p.m. shows only). (Chinen)MIKE MELVOIN TRIO (Friday and Saturday) Mike Melvoin, an accomplished pianist, composer and arranger with extensive history in the Los Angeles studio realm, leads a trio with the responsive rhythm team of Tony Marino on bass and Bill Goodwin on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum.(Chinen)VICTOR PRIETO TRIO (Wednesday) The Astor Piazzolla war horse "Libertango" is a too obvious inclusion on "Persistencia" (Foxhaven), a recent album by the dynamic jazz accordionist Victor Prieto, but there are also numerous originals, on which Mr. Prieto engages winningly with the bassist Carlo DeRosa and a sensitive drummer, in this case Ted Poor. At 9:30 and 11 p.m., Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. (Chinen)MARC RIBOT (Thursday) Mr. Ribot is a vagabond poet on solo electric guitar, as he proved five years ago with the album "Saints" (Atlantic). Here he plays solo (early set) and in a duo with Laurie Anderson on violin, vocals and keyboards. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10 per set. (Chinen)PETE ROBBINS (Friday and Wednesday) On Friday in the West Village  Mr. Robbins, an alto saxophonist and clarinetist, leads Centric, the electro-acoustic band featured on his last two albums. On Wednesday he embarks on a trio expedition with Mario Pavone on bass and Tyshawn Sorey on drums. Friday at 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. Wednesday at 8 p.m., Barbès, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)ADAM ROGERS QUARTET (Friday and Saturday) Adam Rogers is a guitarist known for hard-driving precision, but his last album, "Time and the Infinite" (Criss Cross), revealed his more reflective side. He seems likely to reach for the same tone with this quartet, with Mark Turner on tenor saxophone, Matt Brewer on bass and Clarence Penn on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15; $10 for members. (Chinen)JENNY SCHEINMAN (Tuesday) Ms. Scheinman is the rare jazz violinist who embraces her instrument's folksier side without making concessions to genre. Her weekly gig involves a rotating cast of players; in this installment the guitarist Steve Cardenas and the drummer Rudy Royston. At 7 p.m., Barbès, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)MIKE STERN TRIO (Monday) The guitarist Mike Stern has a goofily titled recent album — "Who Let the Cats Out?" (Heads Up) — that features the quite serious electric bass playing of Richard Bona. Here Mr. Bona rejoins Mr. Stern in a trio with the drummer Lionel Cordew. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $15. (Chinen)CEDAR WALTON TRIO (Friday through Sunday) As a pianist and composer, Cedar Walton heeds an articulate, almost courtly variety of hard bop. His trio here features David Williams on bass and Joe Farnsworth on drums. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $28. (Chinen)NATE WOOLEY / HARRIS EISENSTADT (Monday) Mr. Wooley, a trumpeter, and Mr. Eisenstadt, a drummer, take turns appearing in each other's  experimentally inclined bands. Both favor the sound of vibraphonists; Matt Moran plays in Mr. Wooley's quartet at 9 p.m., and Chris Dingman appears in Mr. Eisenstadt's quintet at 10 p.m. At Spike Hill, 184 Bedford Avenue, at North Seventh Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-9737, myspace.com/spikehillnyc; cover, $5 a set.(Chinen)ComedyPEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts Sinbad, Feb. 2 at 8 p.m. $30 to $55. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; www.paramountcenter.org.TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall Josh Blue. Thursday at 8 p.m. $28.50 to $39.50. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. (877) 840-0457; www.tarrytownmusichall.org.FilmPEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts "Half Moon," about a man taking his sons to Iraq for a concert to celebrate the fall of Saddam Hussein. Directed by Bahman Ghobadi. Thursday through Jan. 26 at 8 p.m. "I for India," a documentary directed by Sandhya Suri. Jan. 31 and Feb. 1 at 8 p.m.; Feb. 3 at 7:30 p.m. $7 to $9. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; www.paramountcenter.org.PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center "Persepolis," animated memoir of a girl growing up in Iran during the Islamic Revolution. In French, English, Persian and German with subtitles. Through Jan. 24. "The Living Room Candidate," the history and art of presidential campaign ads. Tuesday at 7:15 p.m. "Alice Neel," documentary about the artist. Directed by Andrew Neel. Wednesday at 7:15 p.m. "Diva," directed by Jean-Jacques Beineix. In French and English with subtitles. Thursday at 5:20 and 7:30 p.m. "Operation Filmmaker," documentary about a film student from Baghdad invited by Liev Schrieber to work on "Everything Is Illuminated." Directed by Nina Davenport. Jan. 28 at 7:15 p.m. "Billy the Kid," documentary about a 15-year-old boy trying to find his place in the world. Directed by Jennifer Venditti. Jan. 29 at 7:15 p.m. "A Walk Into the Sea," documentary about the disappearance of Danny Williams, a filmmaker. Jan. 30 at 7:15 p.m. "The Killer Within," documentary about a college professor who confesses to a murder committed 50 years earlier. Jan. 31 at 7:15 p.m. "Everything for Sale," a drama written and directed by Andrzej Wajda. In Polish with subtitles. Feb. 3 at 5 p.m. $6.50 to $10. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville Road. (914) 747-5555; www.burnsfilmcenter.org.POUGHKEEPSIE Bardavon 1869 Opera House "The Blues Brothers," musical comedy directed by John Landis. Starring John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd. Friday at 7:30 p.m. $5. Bardavon Opera House, 35 Market Street. (845) 473-2072; www.bardavon.org.TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall Presidential Politics as Show Biz: "Medium Cool," written and directed by Haskell Wexler. Jan. 20 at 6 p.m. $9. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. (877) 840-0457; www.tarrytownmusichall.org.For ChildrenPEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts "The Red Balloon" and "White Mane," films directed by Albert Lamorisse. English voiceover. Jan. 20 at 3 p.m. Free. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; www.paramountcenter.org.PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center "Labyrinth," a film by Jim Henson. Through Jan. 27. "The Dark Crystal," directed by Jim Henson and Frank Oz. Feb. 2 and 3. $6.50 to $10. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville Road. (914) 747-5555; www.burnsfilmcenter.org.POUGHKEEPSIE Bardavon 1869 Opera House "Snow White," presented by Matthias Kuchta. Jan. 29 at 10 a.m. and noon. $6 and $10. Bardavon Opera House, 35 Market Street. (845) 473-2072; www.bardavon.org.PURCHASE PepsiCo Theater at Purchase College "The Brand New Kid," a musical based on the book by Katie Couric. Jan. 20 at 3 p.m. $13 to $20. PepsiCo Theater at Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; www.artscenter.org.SCARSDALE J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester The Play Group Theater presents "The Dinosaur Musical," by Robert Reale and Willie Reale. Through Monday. $15. Mad Science: Spin, Pop, Boom. Ages 4 to adult. Monday at 1 p.m. $15. J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester, 999 Wilmot Road. (914) 472-3300; www.jccmidwestchester.org.TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall The Random Farms Kids' Theater presents an adaptation of "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory." Ages 3 and up. Feb. 1 through 10. $16 and $18. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. (877) 840-0457; www.tarrytownmusichall.org.Museums and Galleries  ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON Hessel Museum of Art, Bard College "Exhibitionism: Works From the Marieluise Hessel Collection." Through Feb. 3. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Hessel Museum of Art, Bard College. (845) 758-7598; www.bard.edu/ccs/museum.ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON Bard College "Keith Edmier 1991- 2007." Through Feb. 3. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Bard College, Center for Curatorial Studies. (845) 758-7598; www.bard.edu.BEDFORD HILLS James Gallery Large-scale paintings by the abstract expressionist Ashley Andrews. Through Jan. 31. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. James Gallery, 21 Babbitt Road. (914) 514-8981; www.jamesny.com.HARRISON Harrison Public Library "Watercolor My Way," paintings by Brigitte Loritz. Through Jan. 25. Hours: Mondays and Wednesdays, 9:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Tuesdays, and Thursdays through Saturdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Harrison Public Library, Bruce Avenue. (914) 835-0324; www.harrisonpl.org.HUDSON Hudson Opera House "Lascaux to Time Square," works by Patrick J. Wallace. Jan. 26 through Feb. 23. Hours: Daily, noon to 5 p.m. Hudson Opera House, 327 Warren Street. (518) 822-1438; www.hudsonoperahouse.org.KATONAH Katonah Museum of Art "Horizons," sculpture installation by Steinunn Thorarinsdottir. Through March 16. "On the South Lawn: Acrobats," works by Keith Haring. Through Feb. 24. "Shattering Glass: New Perspectives," glass works. Through Feb. 24. "Postcards From Within," postcard-size artwork by members of the museum. Through Feb. 24. $3 and $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Katonah Museum of Art, Route 22 at Jay Street. (914) 232-9555; www.katonahmuseum.org.LARCHMONT Anelle Gandelman Fine Art Exhibition featuring oil paintings by Katharine Dufault and mixed-media works by Mike Solomon. Through Feb. 14. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Anelle Gandelman Fine Art, 1989 Palmer Avenue. (914) 840-4151; www.anellegandelman.com.LARCHMONT Kenise Barnes Fine Art "Largo Arenula," impressionistic paintings by David Konigsberg. Through Feb. 23. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Kenise Barnes Fine Art, 1955 Palmer Avenue. (914) 834-8077; www.kbfa.com.NEW ROCHELLE The Brother Kenneth Chapman Gallery, Iona College Arts Center  "Deep Pop," works by various artists inspired by pop imagery. Curated by Andrew Michael Ford. Jan. 27 through Feb. 21. The Brother Kenneth Chapman Gallery, Iona College Arts Center , Iona College. (914) 637-7796; www.iona.edu.PEEKSKILL Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art "Mount Maslow," exhibition featuring the the latest sculptures by Folkert de Jong. Continuing. "Size Matters: XXL," large-scale paintings by 31 artists. Through July 27. $5, adults; $1, children; members, free. Hours: Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m., and by appointment. Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art, 1701 Main Street. (914) 788-0100; www.hvcca.com.PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts "Racing on a Broken Road," mixed-media works by Betsy Braun Lane. Through March 9. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; www.paramountcenter.org.PORT CHESTER Clay Art Center "Albert Pfarr: Making Space," exhibition featuring large-scale sculpture. Through Jan. 26. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., or by appointment. Clay Art Center, 40 Beech Street. (914) 937-2047; www.clayartcenter.org.POUGHKEEPSIE Marist College Art Gallery Paintings by Carol Robb. Jan. 24 through Feb. 21. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. Marist College Art Gallery, Fulton Street and Beck Place. (845) 575-3000; www.marist.edu.POUGHKEEPSIE Vassar College "Saul Steinberg: Illuminations," a retrospective of the New Yorker artist. Through Feb. 24. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Vassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center. (845) 437-5632; fllac.vassar.edu.PURCHASE Neuberger Museum of Art "Person of the Crowd: The Contemporary Art of Flanerie," curated by Thom Collins. Jan. 20 through April 13. "Collaborative Compositions: A Portfolio for Merce Cunningham," paintings and recorded footage of the choreographer's collaborations with various artists. Jan. 27 through March 16. $3 to $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Neuberger Museum of Art, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6100; www.neuberger.org.RYE Rye Free Reading Room "Abstract Paintings in Oil," by Malcolm Rizzuto. Through Feb. 15. Hours: Mondays and Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Rye Free Reading Room, 1061 Boston Post Road. (914) 967-0480; www.ryelibrary.org.WEST NYACK Rockland Center for the Arts "Merit Badge 2," various artists. Through May. 14. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Rockland Center for the Arts, 27 South Greenbush Road. (845) 358-0877; www.rocklandartcenter.org.WOODSTOCK Gallery B.M.G. "Boudoir Project," photographs by Charise Isis. Through Feb. 18. Hours: Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m., or by appointment. Gallery B. M. G., 12 Tannery Brook Road. (845) 679-0027; www.galeriebmg.com.YONKERS Hudson River Museum "Pattern and Decoration: An Ideal Vision in American Art, 1975-1985." Works by 11 artists influential in the 1970s and '80s. Through Jan. 20. $3 to $5. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, noon to 8 p.m. Hudson River Museum, 511 Warburton Avenue. (914) 963-4550; www.hrm.org.Music and DanceIRVINGTON Irvington Town Hall The Westchester Jazz Orchestra performs  standards with a twist. Jan. 26 at 8 p.m. $5 to $30. Irvington Town Hall, 85 Main Street. (914) 591-6602; www.westjazzorch.org.LARCHMONT Larchmont Avenue Church The Brass Onion Quintet performs works by Fauré, Rodrigo, the Beatles and others. Jan. 20 at 3 p.m. Free. Larchmont Avenue Church, 60 Forest Park Avenue. (914) 674-2865; www.lacny.org.LARCHMONT Watercolor Cafe Erin McKeown, folk. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $25. Les Kurtz, jazz piano. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Ted Rosenthal Duo, jazz. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Ted Rosenthal Trio, jazz. Friday at 9 p.m. Free. Lyn Chrystie Trio, jazz. Jan. 26 at 9 p.m. Free. Watercolor Cafe, 2094 Boston Post Road. (914) 834-2213; www.watercolorcafe.net.PURCHASE PepsiCo Theater at Purchase College "Urban Bush Woman," a dance piece that conveys the untold stories of disenfranchised people. Friday and Jan. 26 at 8 p.m. $24 to $45. PepsiCo Theater at Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; www.artscenter.org.PURCHASE  Performing Arts Center "Perú Negro," festive dances with Afro-South American music. Jan. 27 at 3 p.m. $19 to $40. Performing Arts Center, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; www.artscenter.org.TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall "A Journey Through Time," performed by members of the Fred Astaire Dance Studio. Jan. 26 at 7 p.m. $35. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. (877) 840-0457; www.tarrytownmusichall.org.PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts "An Evening with Styx," rock. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. $75 to $110. Bill Frisell Trio, jazz-fusion, featuring Tony Scher and Kenny Wollesen. Jan. 27 at 7 p.m. $35 to $45. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; www.paramountcenter.org.PURCHASE Recital Hall, Music Arts Building Imani Winds, classical-fusion. Jan. 27 at 3 p.m. $38. Recital Hall, Music Arts Building, (914) 251-6700; www.artscenter.org.SCARSDALE J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester The Artemis Chamber Ensemble performs pieces by Prokofiev, Barber, Piston and Duke Ellington. Jan. 20 at 3 p.m. $15. "Viva Verdi!" with Victoria Atwater, soprano; Bruce Reed, tenor; Edward Hull, baritone; Mark Toback, piano; and Sandra Schipior, violin. Wednesday at 1 p.m. $20 and $23. J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester, 999 Wilmot Road. (914) 472-3300; www.jccmidwestchester.org.TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall Neko Case, folk-rock. Friday at 8 p.m. $30 to $40. The Westchester Symphonic Winds, conducted by Dr. L. Fernando Jimenez. Jan. 27 at 3 p.m. $13 and $18. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. (877) 840-0457; www.tarrytownmusichall.org.WHITE PLAINS Memorial United Methodist Church Music at Memorial, Sunday Afternoon Concerts: Mo Glazman and Friends. Jan. 27 at 4 p.m. $25. Memorial United Methodist Church, 250 Bryant Avenue. (914) 949-2146; memorialmethodist.org.WHITE PLAINS Westchester County Center Big Things Happen at the Little Theater: Roxy Perry, blues. Feb. 1 at 8 p.m. $20. Westchester County Center, 198 Central Avenue. (914) 995-4050; www.countycenter.biz.YONKERS Saunders High School The Yonkers Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by James Sadewhite, plays works by Beethoven, Prokofiev and Mendelssohn. Jan. 27 at 3 p.m. Free. Saunders High School, 183 Palmer Road. (914) 965-5232; www.yonkersphilharmonic.org.Spoken WordBEACON Dia:Beacon Luc Sante discusses the art of An-My Lê. Jan. 28 at 1 p.m. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street. (845) 440-0100; www.diabeacon.org.RYE Rye Free Reading Room Lee Child, author. Jan. 27 at 4:15 p.m. Rye Free Reading Room, 1061 Boston Post Road. (914) 967-0480; www.ryelibrary.org.TheaterMAMARONECK Emelin Theater "Murderers," by Jeffrey Hatcher, directed by Michael Bush. Jan. 24 through Feb. 10. $32 and $35. Emelin Theater, 153 Library Lane. (914) 698-0098; www.emelin.org.MOHEGAN LAKE Van Cortlandtville School "The Cherry Orchard," by Chekhov, presented by YCP TheaterWorks. Directed by Melinda O'Brien. Jan. 25 through Feb. 10. $12 and $15. Van Cortlandtville School, 3100 East Main Street. (914) 528-4145; www.ycptw.org.WHITE PLAINS Rochambeau School for Adult and Continuing Education "From the Wings 2008," presented by the Fort Hill Players. Friday and Jan. 26 at 8 p.m. $10; members, free. Rochambeau School for Adult and Continuing Education, 228 Fisher Avenue. (914) 309-7278; www.forthillplayers.com.FILMTENAFLY JCC on the Palisades Screening of  "Steal a Pencil for Me," a documentary   by  Michèle Ohayon. Jan. 26 at 8 p.m. $12 and $15. J.C.C. on the Palisades, 411 East Clinton Avenue. (201) 569-7900.FOR CHILDRENATLANTIC HIGHLANDS First Avenue Playhouse "Beauty and the Beast," presented by Paper Moon Puppet Theater. Through March 22. $9. First Avenue Playhouse, 123 First Avenue. (732) 291-7552; www.firstavenueplayhouse.com.CHATHAM Great Swamp Outdoor Education Center "Baby and Me Hikes," moderate guided hikes on various Morris County area trails. Through Jan. 29. $1. Great Swamp Outdoor Education Center, 247 Southern Boulevard. (973) 635-6629; www.parks.morris.nj.us.EAST RUTHERFORD Izod Center Disney on Ice presents "Finding Nemo," featuring characters from the movie. Through Jan. 27. $15 to $70. Izod Center, 50 Route 120. (201) 507-8900; www.meadowlands.com.MADISON Museum of Early Trades and Crafts Groundhog  Day Celebration. Participate in a number of groundhog-themed activities and meet the groundhog puppet Phil. Ages 2 to 7. Feb. 2, 1 to 3 p.m. $3. Museum of Early Trades and Crafts, 9 Main Street. (973) 377-2982; www.rosenet.org/metc.MARLTON Borders "Animal Tales," a reading of stories  followed by an activity. Tuesday at 10 a.m. Free. Borders, 515 Route 73 South. (856) 985-5080.SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center Rebecca Frezza and her band, Big Truck, performs children's music. Jan. 27 at 3 p.m. $18. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; www.sopacnow.org.WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College The Russian  American Kids Circus, with acrobatics, cycling, juggling, balancing and clowns. Jan. 27 at 2 p.m. $16. "Funny Stuff Circus," with performance by Mr. Fish and Trent the Mime. Feb. 2 at 2 and 4 p.m. $8 and $10. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org.MUSIC AND DANCECAMDEN Adventure Aquarium Universal African Drum and Dance Ensemble, a Black History Month celebration featuring African dancers, singers dressed in traditional attire, martial arts acrobats and African drumming. Feb. 2 at noon and 2 p.m. $14.95 and $17.95. Adventure Aquarium, 1 Riverside Drive. (866) 451-2782; www.adventureaquarium.com.CHATHAM Sanctuary Concerts at Presbyterian Church of Chatham "Rossini and Friends," performance by Coro Lirico under the direction of Jason C. Tramm. Jan. 20 at 3 p.m. $20 and $25. The Roches with We're About 9, folk. Feb. 2 at 8 p.m. $25. Sanctuary Concerts at Presbyterian Church of Chatham, 240 Southern Boulevard. (973) 376-4946; www.sanctuaryconcerts.org.ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center Boyz II Men, multiplatinum R&B group. Wednesday at 8 p.m. $29 to $80. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org.FAIR LAWN Fair Lawn Community Center Dave Rowe Trio and special guest Caroline Doctorow, folk. Feb. 2 at 8 p.m. $17 and $20. Fair Lawn Community Center, 10-10 20th Street. (201) 384-1325.GLASSBORO Rowan University Yolanda Kondonassis, harpist. Feb. 3 at 3 p.m. $15 to $25. Rowan University, Wilson Hall, Route 322. (856) 256-4545.MAHWAH Sharp Theater, Berrie Center for the Performing and Visual Arts "Evening of Acoustic American Music," featuring David Bromberg and Angel Band. Jan. 26 at 8 p.m. $15 to $32. "Simple Gifts of the Cashore Marionettes," a family performance depicting scenes from everyday life. Jan. 27 at 3 p.m. $12 to $20. Sharp Theater, Berrie Center for the Performing and Visual Arts, 505 Ramapo Valley Road. (201) 684-7844.MONTCLAIR Sesame Restaurant Ms. Carrie Jackson and Jazzin' All Stars. Thursday, 7 to 10 p.m. Free. Sesame Restaurant, 400 Bloomfield Avenue. (973) 746-2553; www.sesamerestaurant.com.MONTCLAIR Trumpets Jazz Club and Restaurant Dale Chandler and Sophisticats, jazz. Tuesday, 7:30 to 11:30 p.m. The Ellington Legacy Band,  jazz. Wednesday, 7:30 to 11:30 p.m. "Betty Liste's Vocal Jam," jazz. Thursday, 7:30 to 11:30 p.m. Alan Harris Quintet, jazz. Friday, 8:30 p.m. to midnight. $8 and $10, $5 minimum. Trumpets Jazz Club and Restaurant, 6 Depot Square. (973) 744-2600; www.trumpetsjazz.com.MOORESTOWN Perkins Center for the Arts Teresa D'Amico, soprano, and Donna Gill, accompanist. Jan. 27 at 4 p.m. $8 to $12. Perkins Center for the Arts, 395 Kings Highway. (856) 235-6488; www.perkinscenter.org.MORRISTOWN Minstrel Coffeehouse, Morristown Unitarian Fellowship Susan Werner and Anthony DaCosta, folk. Friday at 8 p.m. $7. Minstrel Coffeehouse, Morristown Unitarian Fellowship, 21 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 335-9489; www.folkproject.org.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts Indian dance presented by the Kalashri School of Arts of New Jersey. Jan. 27 at 3 p.m. $15. The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts Perú Negro,  dances with Afro-South American music that preserve Peru's African heritage. Thursday at 8 p.m. $20 to $35. "Rigoletto" by Opera New Jersey,  a staged concert in costume, sung in Italian with English surtitles, with a live orchestra and chorus. Feb. 1 at 8 p.m. $35 to $70. The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.NEW BRUNSWICK Nicholas Music Center, Rutgers University "Les Contes d'Hoffmann,"  opera by Jacques Offenbach;  three-course dinner and wine included. Feb. 1 at 5 p.m. $75. Nicholas Music Center, Rutgers University, 85 George Street. (732) 932-7511.POMONA Stockton Performing Arts Center, Richard Stockton College "Windy Winter," presented by the Bay-Atlantic Symphony Chamber Players, featuring works by Mozart and Dvorak. Jan. 26 at 8 p.m. $15 to $40. Stockton Performing Arts Center, Richard Stockton College, Jim Leeds Road. (609) 652-9000; www.stockton.edu.PRINCETON Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Princeton "Exploring Iran: An Afternoon of Iranian and Persian Culture," featuring Iranian music, literature, video, artwork, crafts and food. Jan. 27, 3 to 5 p.m. Free. Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Princeton, 50 Cherry Hill Road. (609) 924-1604.SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center Turtle Island Quartet, performing John Coltrane's classical jazz scores. Feb. 2 at 8 p.m. $38 and $45. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; www.sopacnow.org.TEANECK Mexicali Blues Cafe Mark Duval and Particle Theory, rock. Jan. 30 at 9 p.m. $12. Mexicali Blues Cafe, 1409 Queen Anne Road. (201) 833-0011; www.mexicalibluescafe.com.TEANECK Puffin Cultural Forum "On the Rise," featuring the cellist Ani Kalayjian with piano accompaniment by Sam Armstrong. Jan. 27 at 4 p.m. $12 and $15. Puffin Cultural Forum, 20 East Oakdene Avenue. (201) 836-8923; www.puffinfoundation.org.TOTOWA 46 Lounge Dave Schnitter Quintet, jazz. Wednesday, 7:30 to 10:30 p.m. Free. Oz Noy Trio,  jazz. Jan. 30, 7:30 to 10:30 p.m. Free. 46 Lounge, 300 Route 46 East. (973) 890-9699; www.46lounge.com.WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College "Elegies — A Song Cycle." William Finn performs songs about the deaths of people he has known.  Jan. 20. $10 to $16. Kelsey Theater, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org.THEATERHADDONFIELD Haddonfield Plays and Players Theater "Sweet Charity," a musical. Book by Neil Simon, music by Cy Coleman and lyrics by Dorothy Fields. Through Feb. 2. $16 and $18. Haddonfield Plays and Players Theater, 957 East Atlantic Avenue. (856) 429-8139; www.haddonfieldplayers.com.LONG BRANCH New Jersey Repertory Company "And Her Hair Went With Her," a comedy by Zina Camblin. Through Feb. 17. $30 to $40. New Jersey Repertory Company, 179 Broadway. (732) 229-3166; www.njrep.org.MAHWAH Mahwah Public Library "Seven Quilts for Seven Sisters: A Stitch in Time," folklore, skits and song portraying the African-American experience. Jan. 20 at 2 p.m. Free.  Chinese New Year celebration, with music played on traditional  instruments. Jan. 27 at 2 p.m. Free.  Mardi Gras celebration featuring the Dr. Dubious Dixieland Jazz Band. Feb. 3 at 2 p.m. Free. Mahwah Public Library, 100 Ridge Road. (201) 529-7323.MILLBURN Paper Mill Playhouse "The Miracle Worker," drama by William Gibson. Wednesday through Feb. 24. $25 to $92. Paper Mill Playhouse, 3 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; www.papermill.org.MONROE Richard P. Marasco Performing Arts Center "Visiting Mr. Green," a play by Jeff Baron, performed by the Center Players. Jan. 27 at 3 p.m. $8 and $10. Richard P. Marasco Performing Arts Center, 1629 Perrineville Road. (732) 521-4400, extension 134.MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater "Almost, Maine," comedy. Thursday through Feb. 17. $15 to $30. Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3706; www.morrismuseum.org.NEW BRUNSWICK George Street Playhouse "Oscar and the Pink Lady," written by Eric-Emmanuel Schmitt, directed by Frank Dunlop and starring Rosemary Harris. Through Feb. 10. $32 to $64. George Street Playhouse, 9 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7717; www.georgestplayhouse.org.NEW BRUNSWICK Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, Douglass Campus, Rutgers University "Romeo and Juliet," presented by the Rutgers Theater Company. Feb. 1 through  15. $15 to $25. Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, Douglass Campus, Rutgers University, 85 George Street. (732) 932-7511; www.mgsa.rutgers.edu.OAKLYN Ritz Theater "Thoroughly Modern Millie," musical based on the book written by Richard Morris and Dick Scanlan. Through Feb. 29. $20 to $30. Ritz Theater, 915 White Horse Pike. (856) 858-5230; www.ritztheatreco.org.ORADELL Bergen County Players "The Women," a play about a group of Manhattan socialites during the Depression era,  by Clare Boothe Luce. Through Feb. 2. $16 and $19. Bergen County Players, 298 Kinderkamack Road. (201) 261-4200; www.bcplayers.org.PERRYVILLE Hunterdon Hills Playhouse "Barefoot in the Park," a comedy by Neil Simon. Through March 18. $53 to $61.50. Hunterdon Hills Playhouse, 88 Route 173 West. (800) 447-7313; www.hhplayhouse.com.PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center Edward Albee's "Me, Myself and I," directed by Emily Mann,  with Tyne Daly and Brian Murray. Through Feb. 17. $43 to $49. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; www.mccarter.org.RED BANK Two River Theater Shakespeare's "Macbeth," directed by Teller and Aaron Posner. Through Feb. 10. $17 to $30. Two River Theater, 21 Bridge Avenue. (732) 345-1400; www.trtc.org.SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center "Jay Johnson: The Two and Only!" comedy. Jan. 26. $38 and $48. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; www.sopacnow.org.UNION BEACH  Soar Productions Theater "Wait Until Dark," drama by Frederick Knott. Through Jan. 26. $15 and $18.  Soar Productions Theater, 1110 Union Avenue and Morningside Avenue. (732) 471-8268; www.soarproductions.org.SPOKEN WORDCRANFORD Cranford Public Library Book discussion of "Everyman," by Philip Roth. Jan. 28 at 7 p.m. Free. Cranford Public Library, 224 Walnut Ave. (908) 709-7272.ENGLEWOOD Englewood Public Library "Winter Romance," an open mike reading by a variety of poets. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Free. Englewood Public Library, 31 Engle Street. (201) 568-2215; www.englewoodlibrary.org.NEWARK Newark Public Library "What's Hip-Hop Got to Do With It?" Discussion about the impact of hip-hop on African-American literature; moderated by Dr. Margaret Hayes. Wednesday at 6 p.m. Free. "Author's Talk: The Harlem Writers Guild," members of the guild  read and discuss their works. Jan. 30 at 6 p.m. Free. Newark Public Library, 5 Washington Street. (973) 733-7837.OUTDOORSCHATHAM Great Swamp Outdoor Education Center "Lunchtime Walk," guided walk to Lewis Morris Park. Through Jan. 29. 12:15 to 12:45 p.m. Free. Great Swamp Outdoor Education Center, 247 Southern Boulevard. (973) 635-6629; http://parks.morris.nj.us.MUSEUMS AND GALLERIESCLIFTON Clifton Arts Center "Interwoven Influences," an exhibition and sale of tapestry by New York tapestry artists. Wednesday through March 1. $1. Clifton Arts Center, 900 Clifton Avenue. (973) 472-5499.CLINTON Hunterdon Museum of Art "Cuba! Artists Experience Their Country," an exhibition portraying social, cultural and political aspects of Cuban life. Through March 30.  Free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415; www.hunterdonartmuseum.org.DEMAREST Mikhail Zakin Gallery  "Of Like Minds," an exhibition of oil paintings by Jenna Bischel and Jennifer Mazza. Through Feb. 1. Hours: Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Mikhail Zakin Gallery, 561 Piermont Road. (201) 767-7160; www.tasoc.org.HACKENSACK Edward Williams Building Auditorium, Fairleigh Dickinson University "My Own Feminism," exhibition including the works of the artists of the organization Salute to Women in the Arts. Through Feb. 1. Free. Edward Williams Building Auditorium, Fairleigh Dickinson University, 150 Kotte Place. (201) 692-7028; www.fdu.edu.JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center "Race: Are We So Different?" Exhibit bringing together the  experience of living with race, its history as an idea and the role of science in that history. Feb. 2 through April 27. $11.50 and $15.75. Liberty Science Center, Liberty State Park, 251 Phillip Street. (201) 200-1000; www.lsc.org.LINCROFT Monmouth Museum "Dorn's Classic Images," vintage historical photographs from the collection of Kathy Dorn Severini. Through Feb. 3. $6. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Monmouth Museum, Brookdale Community College, Newman Springs Road. (732) 747-2266; www.monmouthmuseum.org.MORRIS TOWNSHIP Morris Museum "Pilgrimage: Photographs by Steve McCurry." Through Jan. 27. "Through Our Eyes," photographs by local high school students. Through Jan. 27.  "Stepping Out in Style: Outerwear of the Last 150 Years." Through March 31. $5 to $7; free on Thursdays from 1  to 8 p.m. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700; www.morrismuseum.org.MORRISTOWN Simon Gallery  Paintings by Sabine Friesicke. Through Feb. 29. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Simon Gallery, 48 Bank Street. (973) 538-5456.NEW BRUNSWICK Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum "A Sense of Place: Children's Book Illustrations," by Catherine Stock. Through Jan. 28. "The Magyar Imagination: Selections From the Salgo Trust Donation of Hungarian Art." Through March 30. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, 71 Hamilton Street. (732) 932-7237; www.zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu.NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation "Dynamic Color: Paintings by Joseph Domjan." Through March 1. $5. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. (732) 846-5777.NEWARK Red Saw "Fakes," mixed-media group show featuring re-creations of everyday objects. Feb. 1 through  21. Red Saw, 585 Broad Street. (973) 648-8275.RIDGEWOOD Unitarian Society of Ridgewood "Ghost Towns of the Old West and Scenic Landscapes," photographs by Jeffery Steccato. Through Feb. 3. Unitarian Society of Ridgewood, 113 Cottage Place. (201) 444-6225; www.uuridgewood.org.TRENTON Gallery 125 "Revolution," media juried show. Through Feb. 2. Gallery 125, 125 South Warren Street. (609) 989-9119.COMEDYWEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College "Parental Advisory Comedy Show 2008," featuring stand- up comedians, with Kyrus Westcott and John Zimmerman as hosts. Jan. 26 at 8 p.m. $5 to $12. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org.
