IT is one of the most mythic romantic entanglements in rock 'n' roll history. At some point in the late 1960s, Eric Clapton fell in love with Pattie Boyd, wife of his close friend George Harrison. Mr. Clapton's 1970 masterpiece, "Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs" (recorded with his band at the time, Derek and the Dominos), was an offering and a plea to her; they eventually married in 1979 and divorced in 1988.The saga sits at the center of "Clapton: The Autobiography," which is being published this week by Broadway Books. Mr. Clapton's memoir follows the recent release of Ms. Boyd's side of the story in "Wonderful Tonight" (named for a song he wrote about her), which in September entered the New York Times best-seller list at No. 1. Mr. Clapton said that he had not read her book but that he had seen excerpts in newspapers and noted discrepancies, both small and large, between the two accounts of their relationship.On the phone from his home outside London, where he lives with his wife, Melia McEnery, and their three daughters, he singled out as far-fetched Ms. Boyd's description of a night in which he and Mr. Harrison had a "guitar duel" for her hand. "We each have our different versions of our years together," he said.His description of his relationship with Ms. Boyd, though, offers few excuses for his emotional swings, substance abuse and extramarital affairs (including one that produced his oldest daughter) that defined much of their decade together. "Someone recently read the book and told me that I was really hard on myself," Mr. Clapton said. "I think that's a misunderstanding of it. I just tried to take responsibility for all the different phases of my life."There is now a long tradition of rock biographies, usually the more lurid, the better. But as the luminaries of rock get older, they are beginning to write their own histories. The autobiographies of Bob Dylan and Sting have been best sellers in recent years, this fall will see the publication of books by Ron Wood and Slash, and Keith Richards recently received a contract for more than $7 million for his life story."Clapton" chronicles the many musical configurations of Mr. Clapton's career. He has played in several monumental bands (the Yardbirds, Cream); accompanied giants from the Beatles and Bob Dylan to Muddy Waters and Howlin' Wolf; and topped the charts and filled arenas as a solo performer. (An accompanying two-CD retrospective, "Complete Clapton," is also being released this week.)With his sturdy blues foundation, liquid tone and architecturally structured solos, Mr. Clapton, 62, is one of rock's most influential and revered guitarists. Early in his career, the scrawled phrase "Clapton is God" was a common sight on the walls of London.But Mr. Clapton's life has also been defined by a series of tragedies and oddities. He was raised by his grandparents, under the illusion that they were his parents; he never met his father and, until the age of 9, believed that his mother was actually his older sister. He suffered through a lengthy, epic battle with alcoholism and drug addiction. In 1991, Mr. Clapton's 4-year-old son, Conor, died after falling out of a hotel room window (inspiring one of his most popular songs, "Tears in Heaven")."I wanted to wait until I had an entire life to write about," he said. "And though I don't think I'm quite done yet, my memory was starting to play tricks on me. I realized that if I didn't do it now, I might have to rely on other people's memories, and it might start to lose some of the accuracy."Unlike some of his peers, though, Mr. Clapton has long been known as extremely private and press-shy. He said that he had thought about writing his memoirs for a long time, though always at the prompting of others.He first attempted the conventional process for a celebrity memoir, with the use of a ghostwriter: Christopher Sykes, a longtime friend. But Mr. Clapton was unhappy with this version. "It looked very defensive, judgmental, full of self-justification," he said. "It just looked dreadful."Charlie Conrad, Mr. Clapton's editor, acknowledged that the early drafts were "a bit breathless." He said, however, that even at that stage, "we were fully satisfied; we were actually surprised at how frank and forthcoming it was, but he felt it wasn't truly him."So in the midst of a worldwide tour last winter, Mr. Clapton — who, in the book, describes himself as both lazy and a perfectionist — took over the writing himself. He put himself on a disciplined schedule, working in "self-imposed exile" in his hotel room every morning and afternoon."I found that I couldn't wait to pick up the thread each time," he said. "I really enjoyed doing it; it was really fun to learn how to put a sentence and a paragraph together."What is most striking about the result is the author's distinctly measured tone, which never becomes hysterical or sentimental, even when writing about painful, dramatic or unflattering situations. ("I considered all of my previous irrational behavior to have been reasonably excusable," he writes, fairly late in the story, "because it had been conducted with consenting adults.") In at least one case, though, his voice was a cause for concern from his editors."They called me up and wanted to know why I was so detached about the loss of my son," Mr. Clapton said. "I had to explain that it was impossible to re-enter that period of time. It's so traumatic that I can really only talk about it from a distance, as if it were about someone else." In the book, he writes that when he got the news, he "stepped back within himself" and then entered "a permanent daze."He added that it wasn't a matter of being unable to summon his feelings. "It's not difficult to revisit. The sadness is always there, it taps me on the shoulder and all comes flooding back. But it is difficult to write about it without sensationalizing it or falsely creating an emotional standpoint just because that's what's expected."Mr. Conrad said that both he and the book's editor in Britain found the chapter about Conor's death "kind of restrained" but ultimately accepted it. "We suggested that he might explore it in more depth, but he gave us what he wanted to say."The biggest curiosity for readers, however, presumably surrounds his account of his marriage to Ms. Boyd. Her book incited a bit of a tabloid frenzy, particularly a scene of the two guitarists battling for her affection with their instruments like medieval knights.Mr. Clapton remembers the evening in question. "I went over just to hang out, he got two guitars, and we played," he said. "But we were always doing that, so how do you make an everyday thing into a commodity?"Ms. Boyd said in an e-mail message that she and Mr. Clapton are "friends" now but that he "is quite right in saying that we each have our memories of our years together."Despite his anguish over his initially unrequited love, which drove him deeper into addiction, Mr. Clapton says now that the affair didn't seem like such a big deal. "At the time it was kind of like swinging, very loose and amoral," he said. "I think we didn't give it too much thought. It was really only later that we realized that we treated each other quite badly."The despair of "Layla," Mr. Clapton added, represented a creative choice, not a documentary about his life. "That's the art of writing love songs," he said. "I was desperately obsessed with Pattie, but creating a song is just putting a stamp on a feeling."Ms. Boyd has different feelings about the intensity of their affair. "It was a big deal," she wrote. "Eric was very attractive and persuasive. George and I had many problems in our relationship that had a great deal to do with the enormity of his fame and his increasing passion for meditation and the spiritual life. He frequently simply wasn't there for me, and there were other women."Mr. Clapton's friendship with Mr. Harrison survived the change in Ms. Boyd's allegiance; famously, the former Beatle once said, "I'd rather she be with him than some dope." Mr. Clapton served as the musical director for the "Concert for George" tribute show after Mr. Harrison's death from cancer in 2001."For George, it was all maya," he said, referring to the Hindu concept of cosmic illusion. "Something would come up, and we would get together to play because that's what drew us together. His take was purely spiritual, that we could always get past the physical world."Ms. Boyd's summation is that "George was able to put all of this in perspective."If Mr. Clapton sounds at peace with his complicated personal history, what emerges as he recounts his musical career in his autobiography is a kind of perpetual dissatisfaction. In one telling anecdote, he remembers coveting a certain guitar when he was young, only to lose interest after buying it. "As soon as I got it, I suddenly didn't want it anymore," he writes. "This phenomenon was to rear its head throughout my life and cause many difficulties."Mr. Clapton comes across as feeling equally uneasy as a frontman and as part of a band. He tells of joining and quitting groups, no matter how successful, frequently and with little warning. He races dismissively through his solo albums from the 1970s (which he described in conversation as "unfulfilled and half-baked"). Most recently, he seems happiest collaborating with old friends like B. B. King or the reclusive songwriter J. J. Cale; he is exploring possibilities with Steve Winwood, his partner in the ill-fated supergroup Blind Faith."My musical identity has taken my entire life to develop," Mr. Clapton said. "Now I can sing in a band, play backup, lead, sing a duet — there doesn't have to be a label on it anymore. The most important thing is that I enjoy listening to music, and I still do."Mr. Clapton said he finds his stability in the blues, the music that he first loved and that he continues to regard as a kind of beacon. "There's a matter-of-factness, a sense of acceptance about the blues," he said. "Acceptance is a great state of being. It steps aside of hysteria, drama, extreme emotions." And it is precisely this even, unblinking sensibility that defines the author's voice in "Clapton.""To write this book, I had to be comfortable with my day-to-day existence," Mr. Clapton said. "I like that I can look back and feel comfortable with my life."P J Harvey was temporarily flummoxed. "I thought you said I was ridiculous," she said. "I was about to agree, actually."In fact, that's exactly what he had said: a fired-up concertgoer, shouting his gruff review from somewhere in the darkness of the Beacon Theater. (Everyone's a critic.) But on this side of the Atlantic, "ridiculous" is often a compliment, shorthand for "ridiculously great" or something. And he wasn't alone: something about the pauses between songs at a P J Harvey concert inspires people to shout praise at the solitary figure onstage. Are they trying to reassure her? Rattle her? Both?It doesn't matter, because Ms. Harvey is a brilliant singer and songwriter and performer, one who usually finds a way to seem supremely self-assured and slightly rattled at the same time. During Wednesday's concert, she spent a little over an hour murmuring and yawping her songs, accompanying herself on guitar and piano and synthesizer. Then the house lights came on, but people stood and applauded and refused to leave, so she came back for an encore that almost felt unpremeditated. (A photograph of the set list, posted at brooklynvegan.com, confirms that the four-song encore was planned.)On a day when everyone seemed to be talking about a different British alt-rock juggernaut from the 1990s (starts with an "R," ends with a "d," has an "adiohea" in the middle), Ms. Harvey reminded a roomful of fans that she had done something even more fearless than releasing a pay-what-you-want download. Her new album, "White Chalk" (Island), is a bleak collection of quiet, intense little songs; she spends most of it exploring the shaky high end of her vocal register.There are no guitar heroics and no snarled pronouncements. It's a hard album to listen to, not because of the songs (which are often lovely), but because playing it feels somehow intrusive, feels like eavesdropping. Part of the concert's draw was that it offered a chance to see how the quietly unsettling new songs fit with some of the thunderously unsettling old ones.She got a big round of applause for an autoharp-and-drum-machine version of "Down by the Water," her 1995 hit, and for a floor-rattling, electric-guitar-powered run through "Rid of Me," one of her signature songs. But songs from the new album — including "Grow Grow Grow," an eerie allegory, and "The Devil," driven by the insistent tock-tock-tock of a  metronome — were received nearly as warmly. This wasn't one of those shows where people suffer through the new stuff.An  old songs she exhumed was "Nina in Ecstasy," a B-side that she called "one of my favorites"; it was also a reminder that she has long used her upper register to give her songs a touch of ambivalence. And in "The Piano," from "White Chalk," she seemed to play up the juxtaposition of her softened voice and that hard opening line: "Hit her with a hammer/Teeth smashed in." As she ascends, she has to work harder to find the pitch.Taken together, all the high notes suggest a kind of uncertainty, the opposite of the fierce certainty she was once known for. Or maybe those two things aren't opposites at all.CLASSICALFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.FILARMONICA DELLA SCALA Opera houses and their orchestras often have a complicated relationship. In Leipzig and Vienna, the leading orchestras (the Gewandhaus and the Vienna Philharmonic) do double duty in the opera house. In Berlin and at the Metropolitan Opera in New York, the orchestra breaks out of the opera house for an occasional concert or even tour (the Berlin Staatskapelle under Daniel Barenboim, the Met orchestra under James Levine).But in Milan, the Filarmonica della Scala postdates its eponymous opera house, the Teatro alla Scala, by a century or so. The orchestra was not founded until 1982, when Claudio Abbado conducted its first concert, presented as a way to offer the theater's musicians a deeper immersion in the symphonic repertory as a self-governing body.Some might see it as a difficulty that the orchestra's tours often focus on the Italian symphonic repertory: a somewhat limited field, with a heavy admixture of opera overtures. It arrives in New York, however, brandishing the banner of Wagner: at Carnegie Hall on Saturday, the tenor Ben Heppner joins the musicians (and breaks gender convention) in the "Wesendonck Lieder," usually sung by a woman, capped with a brief flourish from "Die Walküre." Still, most of the program — conducted by Riccardo Chailly — reverts to Italy: Respighi's evergreen "Pines of Rome" and a suite from Nino Rota's score for the Fellini film "La Strada."And on Sunday the orchestra reverts to Italian operatic type (albeit with a French twist), adding overtures and excerpts from Rossini's "Guglielmo Tell," Verdi's "Vespri Siciliani" and Puccini's "Manon Lescaut." But Sunday's location is an appropriate one for lighter fare: the concert will be held in the Winter Garden of the World Financial Center, and it is free. (Saturday at 7 p.m., Carnegie Hall, 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $20 to $130. Sunday at noon,  220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, 212-945-0505, worldfinancialcenter.com.) ANNE MIDGETTE Opera'AGRIPPINA' (Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) This early Handel opera takes us to the world of the Roman emperor Claudius and, more particularly, his scheming wife, Agrippina, and her unrestrained ploys to have her son, Nero (Nerone in the opera), named Claudius's successor. The production, by Lillian Groag, returns to the New York City Opera repertory on Sunday, with Nelly Miricioiu making her house debut in the title role, Jennifer Rivera as Nerone and David Walker as Ottone. Ransom Wilson conducts. Sunday at 1:30 p.m., Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Allan Kozinn)'AIDA' (Tuesday) Sonja Frisell's big-boned production still looks good, and the Met makes the right kind of big noises. Angela M. Brown as Aida and Dolora Zajick as Amneris are this year's one-two female punch. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $65 to $375. (Bernard Holland)'CARMEN' (Saturday) Six feet tall and stunning, the mezzo Beth Clayton is a rare bird: a Carmen naturally able to project the character's tremendous power and sexiness, and incapable of the usual hip-swinging schtick. All she needs is a little more concentration on the purely musical side of things to help showcase her fine voice and turn her impressive Carmen into a great one. Scott Piper is alternately strong and wavery as Don José; Carlos Archuleta sings for the first time with the company in the ungrateful role of Escamillo (was ever a hit tune so difficult to bring off well?); and Jennifer Black brings a sweet voice to Micaëla. Joseph Rescigno conducts as if riding a commuter train along the Hudson: a routine journey through some pretty scenery. At 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Anne Midgette)'CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA' AND 'PAGLIACCI' (Saturday) This new Stephen Lawless production, which updates old-style verismo to the Italian postwar film era, continues with a matinee on Saturday. This is the last time to hear the original cast (including Anna Maria Chiuri, Brandon Jovanovich and Andrew Oakden) before new singers take over. At 1:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Holland)'DON GIOVANNI' (Friday) It's been called the greatest opera in the repertory, but Mozart's classic can also be an acquired taste — even for the young singers in City Opera's cast, who may need a little more guidance. Julianna Di Giacomo, as Elvira, has a definite vocal presence, a firm vivid sound; Bruce Sledge, as Ottavio, is able but sounds underinvolved; JiYoung Li, as Zerlina, has a nice, colorful voice, though little sense of rhythm; and Daniel Borowski is a woofy Commendatore. The other singers are Mardi Byers (Anna), Daniel Mobbs (Leporello) and Aaron St. Clair Nicholson, making his company debut in the title role. At 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 to $130. (Midgette)★ LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR (Saturday and Wednesday) In the title role of Donizetti's "Lucia di Lammermoor," Natalie Dessay, the petite French soprano with enormous charisma, justifies the extensive promotional campaign the Metropolitan Opera has built around her for its new production of this repertory staple. Ms. Dessay gives a haunting portrayal, singing with a wondrous mix of intimacy and brilliance, and poignantly conveying the fragile character's descent into murderous instability. The excellent cast is topped by the ardent tenor Marcello Giordani as Lucia's lover Edgardo, and the dynamic baritone Mariusz Kwiecien as her bullying brother. James Levine conducts a gripping performance. This new production, by Mary Zimmerman, has been built around Ms. Dessay. But on Wednesday the excellent French lyric coloratura soprano Annick Massis, stepping into the title role, should bring her own insights. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $175. (Anthony Tommasini)'MADAMA BUTTERFLY' (Friday and Monday) Anthony Minghella's production was the big gun of the Metropolitan Opera's season last year, and it returns on Friday with Patricia Racette and Roberto Alagna as the love interests. Mark Elder conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $70. (Holland)★ 'LE NOZZE DI FIGARO' (Saturday and Thursday) Jonathan Miller's spare 1998 production, now directed by Robin Guarino, has the virtue of letting Mozart's music and Da Ponte's libretto work their magic unhindered. But that can't happen if the casting and chemistry aren't right. For its first cast the company offers youthful exuberance, to superb effect: Lisette Oropesa has a lovely, flexible voice and the comic instincts to shape Susanna perfectly, and Erwin Schrott, a Uruguayan bass, matches and at times surpasses those qualities in his portrayal of Figaro. Hei-Kyung Hong as the Countess, Michele Pertusi as the Count and Anke Vondung, as Cherubino, also contribute beautifully. Philippe Jordan conducts with energy and style. Saturday at 1:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $42 to $375. (Kozinn)Classical Music★ ZUILL BAILEY AND SIMONE DINNERSTEIN (Friday) In tandem with their continuing recording project of the complete Beethoven piano-cello sonatas — Volume I came out last fall — this pair of soloists, who have performed together for years, offers the entire cycle in a longish single concert (with two intermissions) that tracks Beethoven from his early years to his fully artistic maturity. Ms. Dinnerstein has garnered more attention lately for her Bach, having recently released her account of the "Goldberg" Variations on Telarc; this, combined with the rising regard for both players, should make this a tough ticket. At 7 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $25. (Midgette)YEFIM BRONFMAN (Wednesday) Free concerts during busy morning commutes seem to be all the rage. But Yefim Bronfman, "Fima" to his friends, is not going to put up with the utter lack of recognition Josh Bell encountered when he serenaded oblivious commuters in Washington earlier this year. Mr. Bronfman is offering a free but publicized concert on a grand piano in the middle of Grand Central Terminal to garner attention for an online charity auction to benefit the Food Bank for New York City. The winning bidder of the auction, "Fima for Food Bank," will get a private concert and the use of a Steinway grand piano with a built-in disc player for six months. Others, at least, will be able to listen on Wednesday morning. At 8 a.m., Vanderbilt Hall, Grand Central Terminal, fimaforfoodbank.com; free. (Midgette)CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY (Friday) The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center continues its season with a focus on Russian Romantics. The program, held at the Society for Ethical Culture (a temporary home while Alice Tully Hall gets a face-lift), includes Arensky's Quartet No. 2 in A minor for Violin, Viola and Two Cellos; Mussorgsky's Songs and Dances of Death for Bass and Piano, with the bass Morris Robinson as a soloist; and Tchaikovsky's Piano Trio in A minor. At 7:30 p.m., New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 875-5775, chambermusicsociety.org; $29 to $50. (Vivien Schweitzer)CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (Tuesday through Thursday) Listeners who like their orchestra playing look forward to the Cleveland Orchestra's visits to New York. This time Franz Welser-Möst conducts symphonies by Mozart and Tchaikovsky, and in between features John Adams's "Guide to Strange Places." At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $36 to 119. (Holland)COMPOSER PORTRAITS (Thursday) This rewarding series at the Miller Theater turns the spotlight on the prolific German composer Wolfgang Rihm and presents one of his most important works. Jeffrey Milarsky conducts the Manhattan Sinfonietta in Mr. Rihm's colorful "Jagden und Formen" ("Hunts and Forms"). At 8 p.m., Miller Theater, Columbia University, Broadway and 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com; $25. (Schweitzer)DA CAPO CHAMBER PLAYERS (Saturday) In its Sonic Youth program, this enterprising new-music band is performing works by seven composers under 35. Included are Caroline Malonnée's "Throwing Mountains" (2003); Daniel Wohl's "5 Chemical Elements" (2002); Raymond J. Lustig's Sonata for Violin and Piano (2007); Missy Mazzoli's "Lies You Can Believe In" (2006); Dai Fujikura's "Poison Mushroom" (2003); David Laganella's "Swells" (2005); and Judd Greenstein's "Rock Me Samuels" (2004). At 7:30 p.m., Leonard Nimoy Thalia at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+; $10 for children. (Kozinn)EARLY MUSIC NEW YORK (Saturday and Sunday) Frederick Renz leads his expert period-instrument ensemble in "Stravaganza Veneziana," a program of late Renaissance and early Baroque canzonas, sonatas and dances. The program includes works by Gabrieli, Viadnana, Monteverdi, Dalza and Allegri. Saturday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 749-6600, earlymusicny.org; $40; $25 for students and 65+. (Kozinn)★ LONDON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Wednesday) The excellent musicians of the self-governed London Symphony Orchestra have traditionally had very strong takes on conductors. But they have always had a special chemistry and regard for Colin Davis. The story of his dynamic relationship with the London Symphony has already entered the annals of orchestral history. To celebrate his 80th birthday, and to open the Lincoln Center Great Performers season, Mr. Davis comes to town with the London Symphony for three programs. The first, an all-Mozart offering on Wednesday, includes Mozart's final piano concerto (No. 27 in B flat), with Imogen Cooper as soloist, and the Requiem. (The symphony also performs next Friday and on Oct. 21.) At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $35 to $90. (Tommasini)IVAN MORAVEC (Saturday) The indestructible pianist Ivan Moravec is back for one of his regular visits to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The music is by Haydn, Debussy and, of course, Chopin. At 8 p.m., (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $45. (Holland)NEW YORK FESTIVAL OF SONG (Tuesday and Thursday) Steven Blier and Michael Barrett, the artistic directors of this popular festival, who usually share keyboard duties during recitals, open this season with the program "No Song Is Safe From Us," a threat they have made good on in the past. The program offers four groups of repertory: American contemporary songs; American theater songs; Scandinavian art songs; and Latin songs, from the Iberian Peninsula to Cuba. The soprano Jennifer Aylmer and the baritone William Sharp are among the performers. At 8 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $48. (Tommasini)★ URSULA OPPENS, JEROME LOWENTHAL, TOBIAS PICKER (Monday) Mozart's Sonata in D for Two Pianos is quite simply one of the composer's best, most brilliant and exuberant pieces. Yet it does not turn up that often in concert. So it's great that two exceptional pianists, Ursula Oppens and Jerome Lowenthal, will play the piece, and at a free concert, no less, in Steinway Hall. They will also play Milhaud's delightful "Scaramouche." To add to that, there will be the premiere of a two-piano version of Tobias Picker's "Keys to the City." For this performance Ms. Oppens's partner at the keyboard will be the composer. At 6:30 p.m., Steinway Hall, 109 West 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 246-1100, steinwayhall.com; free, but reservations required. (Tommasini)★ PETER ORTH (Friday) Since winning the Naumburg International Piano Competition in 1979, the respected Philadelphia-born pianist Peter Orth has had a wide-ranging career, especially in Europe. He has lived in Germany since 1992, which may account for his lesser presence in America. For his recital at Zankel Hall, sponsored by the Hausmusik-Meet the Artist Series, he plays a very standard, very demanding program: Beethoven's Piano Sonata (Op. 109), Chopin's 24 Preludes and Liszt's Sonata in B minor. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $30 and $45. (Tommasini)ST. LUKE'S CHAMBER ENSEMBLE (Wednesday and Thursday) This excellent group kicks off its 2007-8 season with a crowd-pleasing program called "Best of the Brandenburgs," featuring the Brandenburg Concertos Nos. 2, 4 and 5, and the Concerto for Two Violins in D minor. At 7:30 p.m., Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 594-6100, oslmusic.org; $40. (Schweitzer)ST. PETERSBURG QUARTET (Wednesday) Continuing the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center's theme of Russian Romantics, the St. Petersburg Quartet (filling in for the originally scheduled Borodin String Quartet) offers a program of Borodin's String Quartet No. 1 in A major and Tchaikovsky's String Quartet No. 1 in D major. The ensemble also presents the New York premiere of the String Quartet No. 2 by the Georgian composer Zurab Nadarejshvili, a work based on ancient Georgian folk and choral traditions. At 7:30 p.m., New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 875-5775, chambermusicsociety.org; $30 to $54. (Schweitzer)★ TAKÁCS QUARTET (Saturday) During a three-part series this season in Zankel Hall this stellar ensemble explores the influence of Haydn on Brahms, with programs featuring Hayden's three Opus 74 quartets and Brahms's three string quartets. On Saturday the ensemble will play Haydn's Quartet in C Major (Op. 74, No. 1), Brahms' Quartet in C minor (Op. 51, No. 1) and Janacek's String Quartet No. 2, "Intimate Letters." At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $48 to $54. (Schweitzer)LARS VOGT (Tuesday) This German pianist has proved a sublime interpreter of Brahms and Mozart in recent visits to New York, and both composers, along with Schubert, will be heard in his current program. Mozart is represented by the Sonata in F (K. 332) and Brahms by the F minor Sonata (Op. 5). Between them Mr. Vogt plays Schubert's Klavierstücke" (D. 946). At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $45. (Kozinn)LEANN RIMES "Family" (Curb)LeAnn Rimes has been a country star since she was 13, and has something many former teenage sensations lack: a big, versatile voice, well suited to melismatic power ballads and yodelirious country throwbacks and most of what's in between. But that doesn't mean it has been easy for her to outgrow her former self. Ms. Rimes recently turned 25, and though she has always had a remarkably unchildish voice (her 1996 breakthrough single was a beautiful, Patsy Cline-ish song called "Blue"), she has spent much of this decade trying to figure out where she fits on the country-pop continuum.Her 2005 album, "This Woman," got her back on country radio. Her new one is called "Family." That's a pretty dull title, or rather it would be had Ms. Rimes never been embroiled in an ugly lawsuit with her father, who is also her former manager and producer, and had she never been observed in a courtroom telling him, "I hate you." (They later reconciled.) "We laugh, we cry," she sings in the title track, and for once, that cliché seems to be an understatement.This is the first LeAnn Rimes album for which she wrote or helped write every song, and the music echoes the fearlessness in the lyrics. "Nothin' Better to Do," her terrific current single (and, so far, a minor country hit) is a brash, bluesy romp; "I Want You With Me," another highlight, gives her a chance to gently belt out a love song. (Perhaps you didn't even know that gentle belting-out was possible.) There's also R&B, Southern rock, a handsome duet with the singer-songwriter Marc Broussard and, as bonus tracks, collaborations from recent albums by Reba McEntire and Bon Jovi. A dozen years into her unpredictable career, Ms. Rimes has apparently chosen not to choose.True, she sometimes lays it on too thick: edging close to self-parody with bluesy groans and growls, or waxing inspirational (in "Doesn't Everybody") about our common need for love. She's more convincing in "What I Cannot Change," a pretty, cello-driven ballad. It's based on the Serenity Prayer, but Ms. Rimes emphasizes strength, instead: "I will change whatever I  — whenever I can." Why stop now? KELEFA SANNEHTHE FIERY FURNACES"Widow City" (Thrill Jockey)The brother-sister duo of Matthew and Eleanor Friedberger, professionally known as the Fiery Furnaces, makes music that defies explication, categorization and most standards of comprehension. Yet the results are usually much more engrossing than off-putting, and not just by indie-rock standards. Happily the band's sixth album, "Widow City," is among its least convoluted and most straightforward.Of course this is a relative claim. Discursiveness is still the fallback mechanism for Mr. Friedberger, who writes most of the band's lyrics and all of its music. But as expertly delivered by Ms. Friedberger, in her plain but expressive voice, the songs here unfurl as songs, not just knotty puzzles. It's as if extensive touring had encouraged a deeper clarity, without dimming the band's strange incandescence.As usual Mr. Friedberger plays most of the instrumental parts; the only other credited musician is the resourceful drummer Bob D'Amico. Together they pursue a sound that's often heavy and compressed, with the gauge pointed clearly toward the early 1970s. This album's most crucial piece of equipment is a Chamberlin M1 keyboard, which provides the analog-sampled woodwind and string parts, and generally imparts an antique yet otherworldly air.That feeling suits a narrator who seems to be perpetually flipping through the brittle pages of a catalog, or consulting an old reference guide, or contemplating the character of decorative objects. ("It's nice to go nautical when choosing a doormat," for instance.) This same narrator evinces a preoccupation with death —  only natural, on an album called "Widow City."There are fewer hairpin turns than on previous Fiery Furnaces efforts, just as there are fewer delirious highs. (Those two things may or may not be related.) What's left is a sure-footedness and steeliness of purpose that brings sobriety to the band's more literary passages, like the opening of a song called "Pricked in the Heart":Listen, these are not drunken as you suppose.It might not be 3 o'clock in the morning like it seems:The little children will be prescient. And youryoung men will see shows,And your old men will dream dreams.On paper it could almost pass for something by the poet John Ashbery. On the album it rattles by as if on a ticker tape. Ms. Friedberger doesn't pause to let you consider what she's half speaking, half singing. She knows it doesn't all have to sink in right away.NATE CHINENROBERT WYATT"Comicopera" (Domino)The English singer and drummer Robert Wyatt works largely in isolation, using collaborators as he sees fit. His records are pure expressions of his cast of mind. And that's good, because he has become a truly strange compound: an unsentimental 62-year-old soul singer, a jazz musician in pop, a gregarious loner, a cheery skeptic. The tension of opposites keeps him young, even as his angelic voice grows more ancient."Comicopera," his 12th solo record since 1970,  has indulgences and longueurs, as all his records do. But it also has some burstingly beautiful songwriting.At heart Mr. Wyatt is a jazz drummer, playing elegant swing rhythm on ride cymbals and snare drums. His lower-body paralysis from a 1973 accident makes him unable to play high-hat or bass drum, but his groove remains a core of his records. On top of that is his wide-range voice, lining out the wide-range melodies. And on top of that is whatever he chooses to sprinkle into the mixture: saxophone, steel drums, trombone and occasionally Brian Eno doing whatever it is that Brian Eno does.This record is arranged shaggily around the themes of patience and love versus impatience and war. Mr. Wyatt has separated it into three "acts," and the first is where the best melodies live, in love songs like "Just as You Are" (alternating verses with the Brazilian singer Monica Vasconcelos) and "You You."But by the time he gets to "Mob Rule," a song that's really just melody, he sings ominous words in a choirboy falsetto: "Plans were unveiled/the press informed/residents muttered their doubts and fears at meetings." In "Out of the Blue," with drones and half-tone clashes and gargling trombone, he metaphorically declares himself unsafe in his culture and country. "You've planted your everlasting hatred in my heart," he intones. And he seems to mean it. For most of the rest of the record he abandons English altogether, singing instead in Italian or Spanish, including a version of "Hasta Siempre Comandante," written by the Cuban songwriter Carlos Puebla in response to Che Guevara's departure from Cuba. BEN RATLIFFJENS LEKMAN"Night Falls Over Kortedala"  (Secretly Canadian)This is Jens Lekman's idea of a pickup line:I saw on TV about this little kid who had a pig for a pet.His mom had once been attacked by a dog, so a pig was the closest thing he could get.This has, of course, nothing to do wid anything, I just get so nervous when I'm talking to you ...It's a sneakily good way to start a conversation, and a song, especially if those words are delivered by an earnest but sly indie-rocker from Sweden (that explains the "wid"), backed by a doo-wop chorus and bolstered by the knowledge that people tend to find his gawkiness charming, or even addictive.Mr. Lekman's debut album, "When I Said I Wanted to Be Your Dog," and the follow-up compilation, "Oh You're So Silent Jens," won him a fervent international cult. His new album, "Night Falls Over Kortedala," seems certain to enlarge it. (For a week it was Sweden's top-selling CD.)Now, as before, listeners who want a bump-free ride will be disappointed. The music is smoother and grander than before (it turns out orchestral disco suits him well), but he remains defiantly unabashed. He strains to hit the high notes, not to mention the low notes and the ones in between. The anecdotes and observations and explanations never stop. And yes, he knows how irritating he can be. One typically bittersweet song, "It Was a Strange Time in My Life," begins with a rebuke: "The Spanish girl pointed at me and said, 'Silencio!'/Making a little gesture as if switching off a radio."Sometimes these shaggy narratives reveal themselves to be near-perfect little love songs, like "The Opposite of Hallelujah," which sounds like do-it-yourself Motown. And sometimes there's no alternative but to get sucked into the plot, as with "A Postcard to Nina," about a guy who poses as his lesbian friend's boyfriend, for her father's sake, only to find himself hounded by the father — "He says he just wants to say hi/I send back 'Out of office' auto-replies"  — and besotted with the friend. (It isn't merely a love song, it's a quirky romantic comedy; you half expect Zach Braff to swoop in during the second chorus to buy the film rights.) And "If I Could Cry (It Would Feel Like This)" has a swelling string section and a clever twist: the words in the title are the only words in the song. For once, Mr. Lekman declines to elaborate. KELEFA SANNEH Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven by the Mahler Chamber Orchestra on Friday night would have fit nicely under the title "Giving Them What They Want." At Carnegie Hall, Pierre-Laurent Aimard was conducting three pieces and playing the piano in two of them.Haydn's late B flat Symphony (No. 102) represented salesmanship at its most sublime. This was written on his  second trip to London, and by then he had figured out how to tease, shock, amuse and touch his English clientele. Trick codas taunt the listener's expectations. The unexpected, managed with an amazing sense of balance, becomes the better than expected.The second of four piano concertos Mozart wrote in the key of C (No. 13, K. 415) was part of a Salzburger's campaign in the 1780s to win fame and fortune in Vienna. The string of concertos that followed was prime material for private evenings in great houses and subscription events that Mozart produced himself, sometimes selling tickets from his own front door.The Beethoven B flat Concerto (No. 2) arrived, also in Vienna, in 1795 and advertised a 25-year-old pianist hot in pursuit of a virtuoso career but also eager to challenge Haydn's originality as a composer. Art for art's sake is hard to come by in these three pieces. Mozart described it best: "There are passages only the connoisseur will really get, but they are written so that everyone else will like them without knowing why."The Lucerne Festival Orchestra, both as a unit and piecemeal, had a busy five days in New York. Its core is the talented Mahler Chamber Orchestra, which has the look and sound of all things young. Mr. Aimard, who has won the world over as a pianist, was its precise, high-energy conductor on Friday.There is an element of reflection and repose in the great Haydn symphony that I think a young conductor leading young players will always have trouble settling into. What I missed here was the presence of a wise man approaching old age looking on with wry amusement at his music and its effect on others.Wouldn't it be nice to hear Mr. Aimard with an orchestra of old folks, stirring things up yet subject to the gravitational pull of age and experience? Wouldn't it also be nice to hear an older musician conducting the younger ones, occasionally tapping the brakes on this high-performing, new-model conveyance?Virginia Bennett Boyd, the daughter of Pamela K. Meyjes of New York and William Young Boyd II of Panama, was married last evening to James Bicknell Lockhart IV, the son of Carolyn S. Lockhart and Mr. Lockhart III of Greenwich, Conn. The Rev. Martha Metzler, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony at St. James' Church in New York with the assistance of the Rev. Thomas D. Bowers, also an Episcopal priest.The bride and bridegroom met while graduate students at Harvard, from which she received a law degree and he received an M.B.A. They both graduated from Yale, she summa cum laude.Mrs. Lockhart, 27 is a staff lawyer in the digital legal affairs unit at Warner Music Group in New York.Her father, who is retired, was the chairman of Boyd Steamship Corporation, a shipping agent founded by a great-great uncle of the bride in 1909. Her father is also the author of five novels. The bride is the stepdaughter of Victoria P. Boyd and of C. Robert P. Meyjes.Mr. Lockhart, 30, is an investment associate for the venture capital fund at Greenhill & Company, an investment banking concern in New York.His father is the director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, a government agency in Washington that oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. From 2002 to 2006, he was the deputy commissioner and the chief operating officer of the Social Security Administration in Washington.You could begin the story of Todd   Haynes's Dylan movie at the very beginning, about seven years ago,   while Haynes was driving cross-country in his beat-up old Honda.   But since Todd Haynes's film about Dylan is as much about Todd Haynes as it   is about Dylan (or maybe even more); and since Haynes is a filmmaker who, in   midcareer at age 46, is doing his best to take the experimental into the multiplex;   and, further, since those who don't like the film are likely to consider it   a kind of gorgeous indulgence, a bizarre experiment, the temptation is to skip   the ordinary narrative introduction and begin at the end, or very near the end,   in this case in the last few days of filming, on the outskirts of Montreal,   where, way in the back of a dark and cavernous and disused factory, there was   a white glowing light, like something in a dream. We begin then with an image   — an image that is all about, believe it or not, the relationship between Haynes   and his film, between Dylan and Haynes, between the artist and the subject he   is trying to portray.Todd Haynes's Dylan project is a biopic starring six people as Bob Dylan, or different incarnations of Bob Dylan, including a 13-year-old African-American boy, Marcus Carl Franklin, and an Australian woman, Cate Blanchett. It's a biopic with a title that takes it name from one of the most obscure titles in the Dylan canon, a song available only as a bootleg, called "I'm Not There." As I arrived at the set outside Montreal and pulled into a mud-swamped parking lot, disembarking and moving toward the great white light, I passed through the recreated past — namely the '60s and '70s. There was a sign for Folk City, for instance, and a fake cover for "Bringing It All Back Home," a mock-up with the actress Cate Blanchett on it. There was a part of a bedroom from the '70s and, on a nearby stand, a copy of "Les Illuminations," by Arthur Rimbaud, the artist who seems to have inspired Dylan in his early days nearly as much as he inspired Todd Haynes. The book, the filmgoer will learn, shows up in a scene involving the '70s superstar Dylan, a kind of jerk Dylan, played by Heath Ledger, who was just leaving the old factory: it was like a Grand Central Station of movie stars, as Ledger was on his way back to the Montreal apartment that he and the actress Michelle Williams had been staying in together for the past few weeks. Williams plays Coco Rivington, socialite, love interest of Blanchett's Dylan, who is known in the film as Jude Quinn, the electric, rebellious Dylan.The bright light, it turned out, was the set — a quasi-governmental interrogation scene that was, like a lot of other things in the film, never really explained — and Christian Bale was just stepping off. Bale's Dylan is a slow-speaking folk-singer Dylan, the Dylan that seems to be searching and pondering. "In the film I'm playing a guy on a kind of fervent quest to find the truth," Bale told me. He is one of the many people working on the film who has collaborated with Haynes before — in Bale's case, in "Velvet Goldmine," Haynes's homage to glam rock. So he was prepared, he said, for the audacity of the script, for so many Dylans, so many different kinds of films within one film. Whereas a lot of people in Hollywood said, "Did you read that script?" and scratched their heads, Bale was ready. "I started reading the script, and I just started to laugh," Bale told me. He also likes the way a Haynes set works, even on this, his last day, where it all feels like the end of a race. "With Todd's films, it's a homegrown affair," Bale says.But back to the image of Todd Haynes, back to the long day, a rainy day, in a cold dark building, and into the bright blast of white light, where Haynes stepped toward the final Dylan to be filmed, the one dressed like Arthur Rimbaud, the Dylan that Haynes named Arthur, a teenage French symbolist poet, played by Ben Whishaw.Whishaw was wearing a frayed 19th-century vest, coat and cravat. "white-wall   interrogation of a teenage poet," the screenplay explains. "weaves commentary   and humor throughout the film." Bale's scenes are shot in 16-millimeter black   and white, using old Kodak   film stock, in a move for authenticity — Haynes even wanted the film in the   film to look as if it were from the '60s. Time is confused, mixed; the   chronology is meant to be as it is in a Dylan song. This interrogation of a   teenage 19th-century poet is supposed to be taking place around 1966.Haynes looked intense. Off the set, he is loose, laughing, gesticulating wildly or rolling a cigarette. Here he was quiet and almost preternaturally calm.Haynes was standing in for the interrogator. He stepped forward to fix the poet Dylan's hair, adjusted his cravat, then read lines that Whishaw repeated. "A poem is like a naked person," Haynes said. "Some call me a poet. . . . A song is something that walks by itself."Whishaw paused. "O.K., fidget a little," Haynes said. The director read on. "We just wish to make inquiries," he intoned. "Are you an illegal alien?""No," the poet replied."Are you an enemy combatant?""No."Let's not bother with what it all means. No one on set seemed to know for sure; they all pretty much trust Haynes that it means something. Let's focus on the camera, which Ed Lachman, the cinematographer, had lined up for a final shot of the 19th-century Dylan, a mug-shot view of the head, with the same shot of all the other Dylans, a set of Dylan mug shots accumulated over the month and a half of shooting. Together these head shots will eventually become the opening of the film: all the Dylans presented as a team, a six-actor composite. Flashing on the video monitor in Lachman's wax-pencil-drawn cross hairs were Cate Blanchett, Richard Gere, Heath Ledger, Christian Bale and Marcus Carl Franklin. Whishaw's Dylan was aligned and then filmed, after which the crew broke.Then Haynes took Whishaw's seat on the empty set and, in the video monitor, happened to perfectly align his head with those of all of his Dylans. When I stepped from the wings to look through the camera itself, I saw, in one semimystical, semirevealing moment, the artist as one with the artist he was trying to artificially reassemble.Because Todd Haynes's Dylan film isn't about   Dylan. That's what's going to be so difficult for people to understand. That's   what's going to make "I'm Not There" so trying for the really diehard Dylanists.   That's what might upset the non-Dylanists, who may find it hard to figure out   why he bothered to make it at all. And that's why it took Haynes so long to   get it made. Haynes was trying to make a Dylan film that is, instead, what Dylan   is all about, as he sees it, which is changing, transforming, killing off one   Dylan and moving to the next, shedding his artistic skin to stay alive. The   twist is that to not be about Dylan can also be said to be true to the subject   Dylan. "These so-called connoisseurs of Bob Dylan music,   I don't feel they know a thing or have any inkling of who I am or what I'm about,"   Dylan himself told an interviewer in 2001. "It's ludicrous, humorous and sad   that such people have spent so much of their time thinking about who? Me? Get   a life please. . . . You're wasting you own." It might sound like a parlor game,   or like cheating on Haynes's part, but to make sense in a film about Dylan would   make no sense. "If I told you what our music is really about, we'd probably   all get arrested," Dylan once said."I don't know that it does make sense," Cate Blanchett says of the film, "and I don't know whether Dylan's music makes sense. It hits you in kind of some other place. It might make sense when you're half-awake, half-asleep, in the everyday lives in which we live. I don't think the film even strives to make sense, in a way."Richard Gere, who plays the Dylan of later years, a Billy the Kid Dylan who ran away to some other place, another time, tends to agree. "It has an emotional truth to it, which is what I think modern art is about," he says. "It's not about the narrative. In other words, without narrative, it's kind of, well, cosmic." (Note: Gere, a Dylan fan, considers himself friendly with Dylan. "It's impossible to think of a world without 'Visions of Johanna,' " he told me, kidding only a little.) "And that's obviously what Dylan's work is about," Gere went on to say. "And I think kind of miraculously, Todd was able to tap into that."Emotional truth is not something that you hear a lot about in Hollywood story meetings. You hear about arcs, you hear about beats and structure. The standard biopic takes a musician and shows his ups and downs, with the happy music in good times, the sad music in bad; it locks him into an identity. With his biopic, Haynes was looking for another way, avoiding straight narrative and leaning toward montage: six short impressionistic pieces almost jury-rigged together. At the most basic level, he has tried to make a film with the power to carry you away, the power of a song, and what he is asking of the audience is to relinquish control, which is, of course, a huge gamble. "You have to give up a certain amount of control when you listen to music," Haynes told me. He wanted to get back to what it meant when Dylan went electric, when he ran away to Woodstock and recorded the oldest, craziest American songs. "What would it be like to be in that moment when it was new and dangerous and different?" Haynes says. "You have to do a kind of trick almost to get people back to where Dylan did what he did or Mozart did what he did." Haynes didn't want to make a movie about anything. He wanted to make a movie that is something.And what he started with was that emotional truth, in this case, just a feeling, a feeling that he had in the car while escaping New York, a feeling that was messing around with the interior monologue of a New York filmmaker who was leaving his small apartment in Williamsburg for a new life. It was a feeling churned up by song — a Dylan song, "She's Your Lover Now." That's what got him going on Dylan, which could be tough to explain to studio executives.Which, of course, is why "I'm Not There," took seven years to make. It isn't easy telling the money men that Marcus Carl Franklin, the African-American 13-year-old, will play Woody, Haynes's version of the young Dylan, a kind of teenage hobo as Woody Guthrie, while Christian Bale will play Jack Rollins, Haynes's folk Dylan, the truth-singing protest singer, who transforms into Pastor John, an evangelical preacher. That Cate Blanchett, playing Jude Quinn, will try to capture the 1966 suddenly rock-star Dylan who was Judas to his folk-loving fans. Haynes thought he had earned some artistic capital with the Oscar nominations for his previous film, "Far From Heaven," but it took his producers five years to raise nearly $20 million to make the film — not a huge budget, certainly, but big for an independent film, and big for an independent film that some will argue is one man's obsession, a Dylan-trivia-fueled dream. Haynes is the first nondocumentary filmmaker ever to have secured the rights to Dylan's life and music, what some people would consider a filmmaker's chance for big commercial profit, but his script, rather than a straightforward depiction of a man and his guitar, was a combination of film styles and cosmic nonsequiturs. While he was waiting for cash to come through, actors came and went. Locations were chosen and then abandoned. One studio picked it up and then dropped it three years later. Haynes didn't finally find a distributor until last December, six years in, when the Weinstein Company bought it. Then rumors swirled that he was on the verge of losing that distributor when Harvey Weinstein actually saw the first cut of the film this spring. And really, who could blame the skeptics? Even Haynes himself told me last month, "This film really shouldn't hold up."In 1987, when Haynes was 26, he began the first film that the public   really noticed, though he'd been making films since grade school. It was a film   about Karen Carpenter called "Superstar,"   with Barbie and Ken dolls as Karen and Richard Carpenter, the '70s pop duo.   A pseudo-documentary made while Haynes was an M.F.A. student at Bard   College (he'd earned his undergraduate degree at Brown, where he studied   art and semiotics), "Superstar" is intercut with grainy video images of the   Holocaust, the Vietnam War, spankings. To represent Karen's anorexia,   Haynes carved away the doll's face as the film unfolded. It's an intellectual   exercise about roles and societal pressures, and its reception was characteristic   of all Haynes's films. Academics loved it. "It begins as brazen mockery but   as its understanding of the social and cultural constructions of Karen's illness   widens, it takes on a bitter poignancy," James Morrison wrote recently in the   introduction to "The Cinema of Todd Haynes: All That Heaven Allows." "Superstar"   was also an underground hit, shown in museums and clubs, until Haynes received   a cease-and-desist order from Richard Carpenter, a legal move that helped make   it what Entertainment Weekly described as one of the Top 50 cult films of all   time.Around that time, Haynes was living in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and had been a founding member of Gran Fury, the artists' collective of Act Up, the militant AIDS activist group. With Christine Vachon, a Brown classmate, he ran Apparatus Productions, an incubator of short independent films that eventually produced Haynes's first feature film, "Poison." "Poison" established Haynes as a leader of what came to be known as New Queer Cinema, a short-lived movement that was as significant for the gay-themed stories it told as for the way in which it told them — from a gay point of view, for example, or a feminist point of view. "Poison," an art film with three interwoven stories (an AIDS-inspired horror film, a mock TV documentary and a Jean Genet-esque story of a homoerotic experience at a French prison), won the grand jury prize at Sundance. More infamously, because Haynes had received a National Endowment for the Arts grant, it was taken up by Congressional Republicans and conservative commentators, who called it "filth" and gay porn. It proved, among other things, to be a big nail in the coffin of publicly financed art films.In Haynes's third film, "Safe," Julianne Moore starred as a suburban woman with an undiagnosable environmental illness. It's partly a horrifyingly intense study of suburbia (Wes Craven called it the scariest film of 1995), partly a metaphorical look at the AIDS epidemic. Unlike the multi-narrative "Poison," "Safe" tells a straight-ahead story. But it's suffused with nods to the history of film — the opening, for instance, is an allegorical nod to Fassbinder's "Chinese Roulette," the German filmmaker's study of the bourgeoisie. At the time, Haynes's lover, Jim Lyons, was ill with AIDS, and Haynes visited him in the hospital in the mornings before working on the set. "I know people who wanted to become filmmakers after they saw 'Safe,' " says Oren Moverman, the screenwriter who helped write "I'm Not There." "I can give names."Then came "Velvet Goldmine," another montage, a love letter to glam rock (the film's title is taken from a David Bowie B-side) that Haynes expected to be both his artistic masterpiece and a commercial success — the melding of smart and popular being Todd Haynes's dream. But it turned out to be neither. The first blow came when David Bowie refused to grant any song rights. Then Haynes faced nine months of script rewrites. And finally, it received mixed reviews — some thought it was maddening, others thought it was brilliant, still others thought it was both — and had a weak showing at the box office. "I just kept thinking I should be having the time of my life making this film, and I wasn't," Haynes recalls."Velvet Goldmine" is also significant in that Harvey Weinstein, then at Miramax, was a producer on the film and distributed it. Haynes says that Weinstein told him that the movie had structural problems and was too long. He appealed to Haynes to make changes, but Haynes had already been cutting and making changes for months and resisted. Haynes was also unhappy about the distribution of the film; Weinstein intended to market it as a Cannes winner, but the film didn't win any major prizes at the festival. Haynes and his allies maintain that Weinstein abandoned the film after that. Their relationship strained further during the awards process, when Weinstein upset Haynes by not campaigning for the film's costume designers in the Oscar competition. "When 'Velvet Goldmine' came out, Miramax was behind it in only the most perfunctory way," Christine Vachon wrote in her book, "A Killer Life," named after her production company, Killer Films. "In Harvey's mind there was a commercial movie in there, but Todd refused to unearth it."After "Velvet Goldmine," Haynes went into a deep funk that lasted a long while. " 'Velvet Goldmine' almost killed him," says his friend Kelly Reichardt, who was a set dresser on "Poison" and won the Los Angeles Film Critics experimental-film award for "Old Joy," for which Haynes served as executive producer.And this is where the Dylan story begins, when Haynes is down. "I've heard this from other people, that he crops up in life, in times of crisis," Haynes told me. By he, Haynes means Dylan. Haynes had another movie in his head, and he was about to go to Portland, Ore., where his sister lived, to write "Far From Heaven," which would be his first box-office success. The film, which was nominated for four Academy Awards, is a tribute to Douglas Sirk's melodramas, starring Julianne Moore as a picture-perfect 1950s housewife who discovers that her husband, played by Dennis Quaid, is gay; she subsequently falls in love with a black man, played by Dennis Haysbert. Academics saw it as a play on Fassbinder's "Ali: Fear Eats the Soul," a 1974 film that pointed to Sirk's melodramas not as mere entertainments for so-called housewives but as a penetrating critique of the roles that society forces us to play.This idea of changing identity is also where Haynes hooked into the idea of a Dylan film, one that would not even feature the words Bob or Dylan. It wasn't just the music that got Haynes, though he was loving it. "I just found this refusal to be fixed as a single self in a single voice as a key to his freedom," Haynes told me. "And he somehow escaped this process of being frozen into one fixed person."The standard kind of biopic bored Haynes. "A biopic is always weaving   these overdetermined moments with these moments we don't know," Haynes says.   "Ray   Charles at the piano, Ray Charles at home." Early on, Haynes ran across   this line in the Anthony Scaduto biography of Dylan: "He created a new identity   every step of the way in order to create identity." It was the eureka moment   for "I'm Not There," a way to build a film with different perspectives, with   polyphonic voices. He called Christine Vachon at Killer Films. He needed the   rights this time, having been badly burned on rights to music, first with "Superstar"   and then with "Velvet Goldmine," even when Harvey Weinstein appealed to David   Bowie for the rights to one song. "I don't want to go through that again," Haynes   told Vachon. She suggested he wait to write. He busied himself with preproduction   for "Far From Heaven."Creative Artists Agency suggested that Vachon talk to Jesse Dylan, the film director and eldest son of Bob Dylan and his first wife, Sara. Vachon recalls: "What he did was say: 'Look, this is the guy you have to talk to. He is my father's right hand.' " In a few minutes, Jeff Rosen, Bob Dylan's longtime representative, was on speakerphone; in another multi-Dylan biopic, Rosen might be the smart businessman Dylan. Vachon remembers that Rosen was immediately interested (both he and Dylan declined to be interviewed for this article). "He was like: 'You know, that sounds really cool. We're always thinking about a way, something that, you know, kind of collects the music.' "Haynes was instructed to send all his films to Rosen. Dylan was about to begin a tour. Dylan, he was told, loves watching movies on the bus. Haynes was further instructed to type up his idea. In telling him how to go about writing up his idea, Haynes recalls, both Jesse Dylan and Jeff Rosen mostly told him what not to do. " 'Don't use "genius," ' they said. 'Don't use "voice of a generation," ' they said, and they were sort of like, don't use his name, and don't use music," Haynes remembers. He was told not to write more than one page.Haynes felt certain that he had an idea of what Dylan liked, as far as films went. "I had heard enough," Haynes said. "I knew he liked Fassbinder." (Martin Scorsese says that in the '70s, Dylan first told him to check out the Fassbinder film "Beware of a Holy Whore.")Haynes began his one page with a Rimbaud quote, Rimbaud being a subject he figured he and Dylan were both familiar with. It was a quote that if he were pitching a film in Hollywood might have killed the project: "I is another." Then came the Scaduto quote about Dylan creating new identities. Then the pitch, two paragraphs: "If a film were to exist in which the breadth and flux of a creative life could be experienced, a film that could open up as oppose to consolidating what we think we already know walking in, it could never be within the tidy arc of a master narrative. The structure of such a film would have to be a fractured one, with numerous openings and a multitude of voices, with its prime strategy being one of refraction, not condensation. Imagine a film splintered between seven separate faces — old men, young men, women, children — each standing in for spaces in a single life." (A seventh Dylan, Charlie, "the 'little tramp' of Greenwich Village," was eventually cut.)"It sounds like a thesis statement," Haynes says now, though it also sounds exactly like Todd Haynes. To hang out with Haynes is to hang out with a guy who can drop words like "interiority" and "recontextuality" and maybe even convince someone that he's missing out if he hasn't read Foucault, but who can also enthusiastically recommend the latest hyper-cool band, especially if it has just passed through Portland. "Last night I saw the Blow at Holecene," he said to me once, "and, dude, I totally recommend you check them out."Haynes sent the pitch off in the summer of 2000. That fall, he heard that Dylan had said yes.For Todd Haynes, Portland was a tonic. It's a lo-fi town, a do-it-yourselfer's   paradise, a place where, in contrast to New York, your career is not necessarily   everything. "When I moved to Portland, I was more social and productive than   I'd ever been in my entire life," Haynes says. "I remember being at an opening,   talking to Gus, and people were just saying, 'Hey Todd!' 'Hey Todd!' I just   felt available, and I loved that feeling. In New York, if someone came and knocked   on your door without telling you, you'd be like, 'Get out.' " Gus is Gus   Van Sant, the director, who also lives in Portland."I think he ran into a lot of people he really liked," Van Sant says. "They weren't really encumbered by all the ambition in New York and L.A." Haynes made friends with writers and artists, people like Jon Raymond, an editor of the magazine Plazm and a novelist whom he had asked to assist him on the New York-area set of "Far From Heaven." (For one issue of Plazm, Haynes posed in a Bigfoot suit, no one apparently telling him how dangerous it is to run around in the woods of the Pacific Northwest in a Bigfoot suit with so many armed Bigfoot hunters running around.) He went river-swimming. He hung out at Berlin Inn, a brauhaus on the east side. "He could have been on the chamber of commerce," Van Sant says.Haynes bought an old Arts and Crafts bungalow. He planted a garden, painted, got out his guitar and played some Dylan songs. "Portland was this green city, this place of resurgence and rebirth," his sister, Wendy, says. Portland was also a cheap city, or cheaper than New York, which is a big weapon in the arsenal Haynes uses to make films. "He lives in a modest way and that is ultimately very powerful, because he's kind of incorruptible," says Randall Poster, the music supervisor on "Velvet Goldmine" and on "I'm Not There" and a classmate of Haynes's from Brown. "And he has people by his side who will kill for him. These movies are very hard, and it's a long road, but it's ultimately very fulfilling."The nation went to war, and Haynes went to the Oscars, and then all through the fall of 2003, he read everything about Dylan he could find. He read the biographies and the studies. He studied the bootlegs. He read Greil Marcus's story of American culture, "The Old, Weird America," a book rooted in the music Dylan made in Woodstock in 1967 with members of the Band and later released as "The Basement Tapes."Haynes generally makes films one of two ways: either with a story line or as a collage of ideas; the latter he once compared to painting while high. "I used to love getting stoned, playing music, getting lost in that canvas and not knowing what it was going to be," he has said. The Dylan movie, he determined, would be that kind of film. He clipped photos, painted paintings, made cards filled with quotes from Dylan, from the Old Testament, the New Testament. "I will open my mouth in parables," Haynes copied down from the Gospel of Matthew. "I will utter what has been hidden since the foundation of the world." He copied down pages and pages of quotes from social commentaries, from folk songs, from Dylan songs. In one of his notebooks, under the heading "governing concepts/themes," he wrote: "America obsessed with authenticity/authenticity the perfect costume/America the land of masks, costumes, self-transformation, creativity is artificial, America's about false authenticity and creativity." For Robbie, Heath Ledger's Dylan, whose on-screen marriage (to Charlotte Gainsbourg) fails, he wrote, "A relationship doomed to a long stubborn protraction (not unlike Vietnam, which it parallels)." The notes themselves can seem like a great cache of insider art, printed out with nice fonts, with colors and graphics, reeking of time spent cramming. "I feel like anytime I'll work on a film, it's like a giant dissertation, a gigantic undertaking, and this is probably the biggest one," Haynes told me. "Probably the Ph.D."In the fall of 2003, when the script was nearly done, Haynes called in Oren Moverman, a screenwriter whom he had consulted early on, to help him finish. Haynes's instructions were Talmudic. "He kept saying, 'We're not writing a screenplay; we're interpreting,' " Moverman recalls. At some point, Haynes wondered whether he could pull it all off, such a wacky montage of Dylans. He called Jeff Rosen, Dylan's right hand, who was watching the deal-making but staying out of the scriptwriting. Rosen, he said, told him not to worry, that it was just his own crazy version of what Dylan is.Finally, by the beginning of 2004, Haynes's script was ready, but Hollywood   wasn't. People wanted to see it, because of Todd Haynes, because of Dylan, but   that still wasn't enough. Paramount picked up the film in 2002, before Haynes   had even written the script, because of interest in Haynes from John Goldwyn,   who was then running the studio. At one point, it was going to be shot in Romania,   to save money. Meanwhile, Haynes carried on with life in Portland, flying the   three hours to L.A. for meetings, helping Kelly Reichardt with her film "Old   Joy," which was based on a short story by his friend Jon Raymond, which featured   Tanya Smith, Haynes's assistant. "He gets involved in all his friends' work,"   Reichardt says.The Dylan script, meanwhile, was with Laura Rosenthal, who had been his casting director since she approached Haynes after seeing "Safe." "It's an incredibly fulfilling relationship," she says. "He's a control freak but a nice control freak." He called Rosenthal the day after he sent it to her. "I said, 'Give me a second — I need more time,' " Rosenthal says. She was skeptical. "I didn't think it could ever be realized," she says. But she was up for it. She sent it out to actors. "Because it was so cool, the phone didn't stop ringing," she says.Actors came and went in the years that passed; Colin Farrell and Adrien Brody were on then off because of commitments. Investors seemed to smell niche audience. Goldwyn was replaced as the head of Paramount, which subsequently let the movie go. But by the spring of 2006, his producers finally put together financing for the film with foreign sales and a large stake by Endgame Entertainment, a small but expanding entertainment firm headed by a Dylan fan named Jim Stern. "Because of my vast store of Dylan knowledge, I was able to follow it," Stern says. The foreign sales came after Cate Blanchett met with Haynes, on the morning of the Oscars in 2005, when she won the best supporting actress for "The Aviator.""He was the reason I wanted to be involved in the project," Blanchett told me. "And it's very rare that you read a script that is as impenetrable as this was, because it was completely and utterly inside Todd's brain. He'd worked out every shot, every juxtaposition of image. It was really like a operatic score, there were so many instruments playing." At breakfast before the Oscars, he showed her pictures. "I think he was really smart in getting a woman to play Dylan," she said. She saw it as relieving pressure on the film. "I think it's the most externally iconic image of Dylan — when he went electric and that tour — and if a guy had been playing, you would have been looking too closely for the Dylanisms," she told me. How did he finally win her over to the role? "We talked about hair a lot," she said.Richard Gere signed on early, too. When Haynes visited Gere's place in March 2005, Gere had just read about Dylan's favorite version of "Positively Fourth Street," by Johnny Rivers, and he put it on as Haynes came in, the two of them lying on the floor listening to it. Gere gave Haynes a book of pictures by Ralph Eugene Meatyard, a photographer whose mask imagery would make it into the Richard Gere sections. Haynes sent CDs of Dylan songs to the cast members. As James Joyce circulated annotations of the inscrutable "Ulysses" (for his friends to publish under their own names), so Haynes, on the production team's behalf, put together a key to all the Dylans, to the films within the film.If you were visiting the set of "I'm Not There" and it had not yet hit   you that each Dylan would have his own film, filmed in a thematically appropriate   style, then it would probably have become clear the day you saw Cate Blanchett   looking more like Dylan than Dylan himself, standing alongside one of those   swan-shaped Italian modern chairs that graced the famous spa   set of Fellini's "8 1/2." If you wanted to feel a little Felliniesque to boot,   you could note that Blanchett spent her breaks staring into a book of Dylan   interviews, the cover of which looked just like her looking like him. "She's   embodied this creature," Haynes told me later. "She blew everybody away."At some point, Haynes would sit you down and show you that Blanchett's Dylan was filmed in a Fellini-style black and white (slow motion sequences to be added later on); that Richard Gere's Billy the Kid Dylan would be shot like a late-'60s, early-'70s Western ("Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" or "McCabe and Mrs. Miller"); that Bale's born-again Dylan would be filmed in the bad-TV video that befits a Sacramento, Calif., church basement; that Ledger's rock-star Dylan would feature the wide shots and close ups of objects that characterize Godard. As Dylan stole song and lyric styles — from the Clancy Brothers, from Civil War poets — so the film cops different Dylan-era directorial styles."I said to Todd before we started filming, 'What's the "8 1/2" stuff?' " Blanchett told me. " 'Is it part Dylan, part Mastroianni?' And he said, 'No, no, it's just a film that I thought of for each section.' I mean, he had a film for each sort of leaping-off point. I mean, that's what I love, the structure of the film, it dips out of the present and the past, of fantasy and reality, but in that particular sequence, within seconds, within one story."Like Blanchett, Lachman, the cinematographer (who has worked with Robert Altman, Steven Soderbergh and Wim Wenders, among others), quizzed Haynes about his choice of film styles. "He said that the obvious thing would have been to use the style of D. A. Pennebaker's 'Don't Look Back,' but if you listen to what Dylan was saying at the time, it wasn't about being in rooms with bandmembers; he was being Felliniesque with his prose," Lachman says. "It's all this imagery. So what better filmmaker than Fellini? What better film than '8 1/2,' which is about a filmmaker being hounded?"It's probably not a bad analogy for how Blanchett felt on the set. For one thing, she was negotiating the fact that sometimes she was speaking composed dialogue, other times reciting actual interviews, especially a 1966 interview Dylan did with Nat Hentoff in Playboy. "That's why it was so tricky to play that scene, because it is from an interview," Blanchett says. "But Dylan's obviously riffing, finding that stuff in the moment. And it's the difference between doing that, and also knowing that this is a reference to something that has already been said. So it was very difficult to play because you were constantly aware that you were in the immediacy of the moment but yet referencing primary, tertiary and secondary sources — the whole Dewey system was crashing in on me."And then there were the constant logistical strains. The cast and all its stars raced around from place to place — 70 locations in Montreal in 49 days, an insane schedule, money always a looming question. "It was touch and go pretty much the whole time we were filming," Blanchett says. "Films like this just don't get made all the time. That in itself is extraordinary. You know, I've seen a couple of really amazing Thai films shot in video that don't really get a release. But for a film to have Heath Ledger in it and Christian Bale and Richard Gere and to be verging on mainstream cinema — I mean, that's kind of a major achievement in and of itself."When filming was finally over, Haynes went to Hawaii   for 10 days, and then to his house in Portland, to the TV room, just off the   living room, where he sat on the floor in front of a flat-screen TV, which was   also sitting on the floor, with glasses, a box of tissues, tea and lots of crystallized   ginger, for the immune system. He had the stacks of dailies beside him. "I'm   just trying to see what I have," he told me at the time. He made page after   page of notes, which were then carried by Tanya Smith, his assistant, to the   editor, Jay Rabinowitz, on the other side of Portland. All previous films by   Haynes had been edited by his former boyfriend, Jim Lyons, an AIDS activist   and screenwriter who was still in New York. Rabinowitz, who had met Haynes through   Oren Moverman, is the editor on most of Jim   Jarmusch's films, including "Night   on Earth" and "Broken   Flowers." He is also a Dylan fan. In the back of the ramshackle   room where he edited the film, Rabinowitz kept a mini-Dylan shrine, part jest,   part talisman. The centerpiece was a painting by Haynes of Dylan. Nearby, Rabinowitz   kept track of the daily set list when Dylan was on tour. "You know, I love to   edit with music anyway, and I have worked on films with Neil   Young, with Tom   Waits, with Joe Strummer," Rabinowitz told me. "But to go to work every   day and to edit, which I love, and to listen to Bob Dylan's music — I mean,   it's the best job I ever had in my life."One night in early December last year, Haynes went out to dinner at Bluehour, a bright star in the Portland food constellation. Killer Films had sent out a reel to distributors, just a sampling of scenes, a few days before. That night, Harvey Weinstein bought it. Now, once the rough cut was ready, it would go to Weinstein; it was clear that Haynes was a little nervous about it. They had argued over "Velvet Goldmine," and Haynes knew that Weinstein wanted the film soon, to take it to Cannes in May. "I will not be rushed at this point," Haynes told me that night.Still, for the next three months, Haynes hibernated with his film, Rabinowitz editing by day, Haynes coming in at night. By Valentine's Day, they had a rough cut. Haynes knew the film was long at nearly three hours, but he thought he was close. He was thinking about the final edits on "Velvet Goldmine." "My only regret is that I was too brutal about it," he told me. " 'Make it tighter. Make it flow,' they were saying. And I should have just let it go."He started to see parallels between his battle and Dylan's, the battle to be uncompromising in your art yet still find commercial success, to make the world bend to your vision. "He maintained an incredible popularity, and he made popular culture come to him," Haynes told me. "He did. He raised the bar, and I have tried to do that."In the early spring, Harvey Weinstein would see the cut for the first time, in New York. When it was over, Weinstein had a lot of problems. Basically, he didn't seem to get the film. According to Haynes, Weinstein did not think the Billy the Kid Dylan, played by Richard Gere, worked — in fact, most people told Haynes that — and said that the movie was confusing in general. Rumors circulated that Weinstein planned to drop the movie altogether. "I think that in this movie there are scenes and episodes that are amongst the best filmmaking that has taken place in American film — I mean you can go that singular on it," Weinstein told me recently. "That's how accomplished Todd is as a director. I think there are sections of this that flow easily. There are other sections that are going to be a little bit bumpy." But at that moment, Haynes says, Weinstein wanted a lot of those sections changed or, as in the case of the Richard Gere parts, cut.Their contract gave Haynes control over the final cut, but over the next few weeks he made small changes and cuts, bringing the film down to two and a half hours. But the essence of the film remained the same. To some extent, Haynes knew what he was getting into with Weinstein, and vice versa. "Harvey told me he didn't want it to get personal, which I respect," Haynes said.A week later, Haynes had another screening in Portland, inviting his friends. Jon Raymond, the novelist, was there, loving it, while Raymond's father complained about how boring it was. It was generally a positive response; Haynes was hearing the things he'd hoped to hear. He e-mailed me afterward: "Watched the cut Saturday night with Jon Raymond and Tanya, while 7 other friends and colleagues watched it in NY. & based on their reactions and my own ability to sort of see it through 'fresh' eyes, I think for the first time in four years those looming clouds of doubt and catastrophe have parted. . . . I realized that I don't have to 'sell it' anymore, that ultimately the film is what it is — & there's no turning it into something else. And what it is is like nothing else: both intimate and panoramic, the story of a personality and a nation (I think it's a deeply patriotic movie). It's rich & literate but it's very moving and fun. Tanya and Jon and I talked about it for several hours & later Jon wrote: 'Tell them (when they ask you what your movie is "about") that it's no less than a history of American conscience and American soul (at a moment when both those things are in serious question). It's a movie about Bob Dylan as the president of America.' "Weinstein decided to do a test screening in New York in May. On one   side of the aisle sat Harvey Weinstein. On the other side sat Todd Haynes. Laura   Rosenthal, the casting director; Oren Moverman, the screenwriter; Jay Rabinowitz,   the editor; and Christine Vachon, the producer, sat in the back, along with   Jeff Rosen, Dylan's representative. The rest of the place was filled with focus-group   attendees. The film, a little shorter, was shown but without effects or credits.   At the end, the industry people in the back rows were joking about an Allen   Ginsberg scene in which he suggests that Dylan sold out to God. Then   came the questioning. It felt like a psychic face-off: Weinstein hunched forward,   Haynes leaning back."O.K., how many people didn't like the ending?" the screening leader said. Answers ran along the lines of "wasn't very smooth," "neutral," "unclear." The psychic edge went to Weinstein's side of the aisle. Then a phrase caused whispers and nods on the Haynes side: "One of the best biopics ever."People filled out forms rating the film. "Far From Heaven" had scored 18 out of 100 for good reactions at its test screening, and now "I'm Not There" came in at 45, the highest score Haynes had ever received. Length, confusion and Gere's Billy the Kid Dylan were all "consensus negatives," to use the industry term. Haynes says that Weinstein predicted dire consequences for the film if changes weren't made. (Weinstein denies this.)Haynes went back to Portland and cut some more, eventually bringing the film down to two hours and 15 minutes. Then he headed out to L.A. for two weeks of sound mixing.In Los Angeles one morning in June, Haynes, Rabinowitz, Perri Pivovar, the assistant editor, and Tanya Smith, Haynes's assistant, were all putting the final touches on the film — and adding the dedication, to Jim Lyons, Haynes's former boyfriend and film editor, who had died of from AIDS-related illnesses weeks earlier. "We cut this," Haynes said, as he watched a Cate Blanchett scene of hallucinatory spectacle. "Jay and I were ignoring notes about it for three months. But we finally cut it when Cate said we should. Not that I do everything cause Cate says to.""You kind of do," Smith said."No, I don't," Haynes said."You kind of do," Rabinowitz said.That afternoon, they were back in the sound studio. There were details to discuss."They want it to say based on the life of Bob Dylan," Smith told Haynes."Tell them it's inspired by," Haynes said.They'd been in Los Angeles for a week. Already that day they fiddled with the basement gospel band as Christian Bale sang "Pressing On," turned up a wind sound effect during a Richard Gere scene and even adjusted the guitar of Dylan himself, playing "Idiot Wind." They had also spent the better part of two hours trying to match Dylan's harmonica in a 1965 Manchester Hall film to a bootleg.Later in the afternoon, Haynes finally got his hands on the master recording of "I'm Not There." Neil Young's office had e-mailed it over. (Dylan's people had accidentally given it to Young in 1968.)"We'd been looking for it all this time, if you can believe it," Haynes said.Haynes was loose, loopy even. At the end of the day, the crew and even his folks came to celebrate with cake. Haynes talked about how tired he was. He looked dead. "I need to get a life," he said."It feels strange to be like this," Haynes told me on a summer afternoon   in July in Portland. By "this" he meant not working on "I'm Not There." "This"   meant a late breakfast at Fuller's, an old Portland breakfast place, or vintage   shopping with Tanya Smith to get a suit for the Venice film festival. It meant   watching Lifetime movies with his boyfriend, Bryan O'Keefe, who had just returned   from China,   where he was teaching English. Not making a film is not something Haynes is   very good at, of course, and his friends realized that he has an idea for a   film brewing, that it has to do with politics and the war. "If I'm lucky enough   to get great writers and great resources to show what really happened in the   march to war and with domestic spying and torture, then I will," he said. "And   if other people beat me to it, that's O.K., but I will take my time."Two weeks later, he'd broken down, at Smith's urging, and bought a new suit, which he wore to the world premiere in Venice early last month. On a party on a boat the night before the premiere, Haynes was feeling queasy. Harvey Weinstein was excited; he had already announced that he would get Blanchett an Oscar nomination or kill himself. And he had already come up with a distribution plan that would start in small art houses and expand slowly. He was hoping to have Greil Marcus write liner notes to be distributed at viewings. He was still sounding a little nervous. "Whatever people are going to say about this, they're going to have say that it's daring," Weinstein told me just before Venice. "Nothing's ever been attempted like this before."As the credits rolled after the Venice premiere, the audience gave the film a 10-minute standing ovation. "That's a long time," Christine Vachon said. "Clock it on your watch."Haynes was overwhelmed. "I was like, 'Who are they clapping for?' ""I think people don't realize how emotional he is," Julianne Moore, who plays the Joan Baez figure in "I'm Not There," had told me earlier. "He's really trying to work out what it means to be a human being and what it means to live in the world."That night, living in the world meant a dinner party at the hotel that went late, and everyone, for one brief moment, loved the film that they used to think couldn't be made, maybe every confounding aspect.The next day, Haynes went to the ocean and came back with a scene description   that was less like an experimental film and more like one of those Lifetime   movies. "I just dove into the waves and I came up in the sea and the sky was   half-light and half-cloudy and it was just amazing," he told me. He was   elated. "I can take all the I don't really get its now," he went on.   For a moment, anyway, it was a real Hollywood ending.Quick, name the competitors of U.S. News & World Report. Time and Newsweek, right? Would you believe Consumer Reports?These are hard times for newsmagazines, and many of them are tweaking their offerings, looking for new ways to thrive —  or just to survive. But U.S. News wants to take on a new role, as a definitive source of information and ratings on a range of expensive consumer products.The first step in that strategy went public Friday on a magazine Web site (usnews.rankingsandreviews.com/cars-trucks)  and today on newsstands  —  rankings, reviews and information on nearly every model of car, truck, minivan or sport utility vehicle available on the American market.In the 1980s, U.S. News discovered a popular audience for authoritative-sounding statistical rankings, beginning with the annual report on colleges that is widely second-guessed  — and even more widely read. It later did the same thing with hospitals, graduate schools, high schools and even places to retire.The magazine wants to extend that practice to mostly high-end goods, starting with the automotive rankings, followed over the next few years by detailed rankings of things like video cameras, television sets and digital music players. This is less about selling particular issues of the magazine than about driving traffic year-round to Web sites with vastly more material on those products than will fit on printed pages.The plan is a gamble on where U.S. News's future lies  —  a future that its owner, Mortimer B. Zuckerman, describes in terms of shopping as much as news. In an interview in his office on the East Side of Manhattan, Mr. Zuckerman  repeatedly cited market research showing that most Americans do research online before making big purchases.After two decades of rankings, "we have branded credibility," he said. "You'd have to be blind not to see what is the economic strength of the franchise."Building credibility in a new area, however, may take some doing. In its automotive rankings, U.S. News assigns an overall numerical score to each vehicle —  along with subscores in a handful of areas  —  and offers quick, easy-to-use comparisons of that grade to all the others in its class.But the central feature, the score, is not the product of U.S. News's own detailed analysis of a car or truck. Rather, it is an analysis of other people's analyses.The magazine has searched the work of dozens of automotive reviewers at newspapers and magazines, assigned a numerical value to each review (a process U.S. News describes as complex, rigorous and top secret), and then aggregated those into final scores. The Web site offers a description of each vehicle, sprinkled with snippets of quotes from those reviewers, so that it reads as much like a Zagat's restaurant blurb as something you might find in Consumer Reports."The goal is to take as much subjectivity out of it as possible," said Rick Newman, a deputy business editor and writer who runs the magazine's automotive coverage. "You read a car review, all you're reading is some guy's opinion. What we're doing is taking all the credible information that we think is out there. The end result certainly smoothes out a lot of the opinions."Roberta Garfinkle, a senior vice president of TargetCast TCM, an advertising buyer, called the single-focus issues and the Web site  "an excellent way to draw some advertisers into the franchise that normally would not be there," like autos and luxury goods."They've got to try something" to set the magazine apart from its peers, she said. A magazine's reinventing itself used to be seen as a sign of desperation, Ms. Garfinkle added, "but it's what everybody has to do now to survive."Newsweeklies, like newspapers, have been bleeding revenue for years, and analysts, along with current and former executives, say that U.S. News breaks even, at best. (As a privately held company, it does not release financial information.)  It had $126 million in ad revenue in the first half of the year, compared with $224 million for Newsweek and $252 million for Time, according to the Magazine Publishers of America. Paid circulation of U.S. News is about two million, while the two others are above three million.U.S. News already stood apart from Time and Newsweek in 1984, when it was bought by Mr. Zuckerman, a big real estate developer based in Boston. It had a smaller staff and so, making a virtue of necessity, it offered less straight news coverage of recent events and more news analysis. And it had almost none of the lighter content, like sports or entertainment, that its competitors put in the back section of each issue.Mr. Zuckerman brought in new editors and strengthened the emphasis on analysis. He mandated a new "back of the book," made up of practical advice for consumers on personal finance, health, technology, travel and education, an approach that grew indirectly into the rankings.The strategy worked. Readership rose and the magazine became highly profitable, according to analysts and former executives.But over the years, a lot of other magazines made similar changes, with more analysis and "news you can use," while U.S. News experienced rapid turnover among top editors. By the mid-1990s, many people at the magazine were suggesting that Mr. Zuckerman's attention had moved on to his other pursuits  — New York's Daily News, The Atlantic and, of course, his real estate business  —  and that U.S. News had lost much of its innovative edge."If Mort is engaged again," said Thomas R. Evans, who served as the magazine's president and publisher in the 1990s, "it's a good thing for the magazine because the guy just sees the world better than other people do."U.S. News says that at least one early sign of its online experiment is positive: at the outset, advertising on the automotive rankings site, which has thousands of pages, is sold out.In the printed magazine, "we used to get 500 pages a year of ads out of Detroit, and now we're down below 50," acknowledged Mr. Zuckerman, who writes a column for U.S. News and has the title of editor in chief.When it came to rating hospitals and colleges for a mass audience, U.S. News all but invented the field, but any number of Web sites, magazines and newspapers rank cars and electronics. Rating consumer products "is crowded territory," said Lee Rainie, a U.S. News managing editor in the 1990s, "so it will be tougher to establish the kind of authority" the magazine has with colleges.  Current editors at the magazine agree.To be successful, U.S. News has to find a broad audience that is not comfortable with magazines aimed at enthusiasts, and wants some of the nuts-and-bolts practicality of Consumer Reports, but without the online subscription charges.  "They probably should have done something like this a lot sooner," Mr. Evans said.The Bruce Springsteen album "Magic" (Columbia) vaulted to the top of the Billboard chart in its debut, selling 335,000 copies in the United States, Nielsen SoundScan estimated. Mr. Springsteen's appearance at the top of the chart was his eighth, and sales of "Magic" were his best since "The Rising," which sold 525,000 copies to make its debut at No. 1 five years ago. Last week's chart topper, Rascal Flatts' "Still Feel Good" (Lyric Street), tumbled to second place on sales of 168,000, and the Matchbox Twenty compilation "Exile on Mainstream" (Atlantic) took third place in its debut with 131,000 copies. Another new release, "souljaboytellem.com" (ColliPark Music/Interscope), from the 17-year-old Soulja Boy, finished fourth, selling 117,000 copies; and "Back of My Lac" (Music Line/Capitol), by the R&B singer J. Holiday took fifth place, selling 105,000 copies.Jesca HoopJesca Hoop may have grown fond of oompah during the five years she worked as the nanny to Tom Waits's children. But that beat is only one of the eccentric ingredients on her debut album, "Kismet" (3Entertainment/Red Ink/Columbia). Some songs build dreamscapes of airy vocal counterpoint; some ride patterns plunked on electric guitar or knocked out on distorted drums. Some sketch girlish realms of ballerinas and romantic kisses; some offer compassion amid catastrophe. And then there's the hard-nosed "Money," a Kurt Weillish take on the music business: "You can trade in that saga you tell/For the song you know will sell." Ms. Hoop hasn't succumbed.Maria RitaSooner or later every Brazilian pop singer comes to terms with the omnipresent, far-reaching tradition of samba. Maria Rita's "Samba Meu" ("My Samba") (Warner Music Brazil) takes on a group of sambas with the lightest possible touch, using mostly unplugged instruments, easing in and out of jazz harmonies and singing in a casual tone that recognizes the longing in the songs but doesn't get weighed down by it. Her voice enjoys a continual dialogue with the cuica, the Brazilian friction drum that regularly answers her with playful squeaks.Baby ElephantPrince Paul's productions, for De La Soul and others, have long been sampling the slurpy, swooping, paradigm-melting keyboard sounds that Bernie Worrell made for Parliament-Funkadelic in the 1970s. They finally collaborate as Baby Elephant, whose album "Turn My Teeth Up!" (Godforsaken) is a properly droll tribute to Mr. Worrell. "Computerized funknology" from Prince Paul and his collaborator Newkirk sets up the beats and Mr. Worrell does nearly all the rest, from down-home piano to space-age synthesizers. Purists and funk analysts can get an instrumental version of the album, "Turn My Teeth Up! The Mental-Instroz" (Godforsaken). But the full album's guest vocalists — George Clinton, Yellowman, David Byrne, Shock G of Digital Underground — just give Mr. Worrell more to wrap (and warp) his keyboards around.Cafe TacvbaThe Mexican rock band Cafe Tacvba  sounds downright earnest as it begins its sixth album, "Sino" (Universal Music Latino), with tolling piano chords out of U2 and lyrics about wishing for a grander purpose. "Sino" is Spanish for "but instead," and also perhaps a pun on "yes-no" and "if not," and the album is full of existential questions, posed in songs that don't stay moored long in any style. They encompass everything from leisurely Beach Boys harmonies to pressured XTC-style new wave, from echoes of the Who to Depeche Mode synthesizers to a late-breaking drum solo. If the songs weren't so unsure of their place in the universe, perhaps the music wouldn't be so inventively restless.Josh RitterWhat to do with smart words and a folk-rock melody? Scuff up the music so nothing gets too hifalutin. On "The Historical Conquests of Josh Ritter" (Victor), his fifth album, Mr. Ritter goes for the homemade folk-pop sound of the early 1970s, hinting at Stealers Wheel, the Band and Paul McCartney's early Wings. Modestly strummed guitars, chugging midtempo piano chords and low-fi drums carry songs that embrace both old-fashioned romance and modern self-consciousness. In "The Temptation of Adam," a fingerpicking ballad, love blossoms in the silo that holds an ICBM. The singer doubts it would last in the outside world; "I think about that great big button and I'm tempted," he concludes.PipettesThe concept gets revived every decade or so: an early-1960s-style girl group for more explicit times. Enter the Pipettes — RiotBecki, Rosay and Gwenno — from Brighton, England, in their polka-dot dresses, with songs by someone calling himself Monster Bobby. The expanded American version of "We Are the Pipettes" (Cherrytree/Interscope), arriving a year after its British equivalent was released, competently adds bits of the Go-Go's, Bananarama and the B-52's to its basic Phil Spector fixation. But even with song titles like "Sex" and "One Night Stand," the Pipettes stay so tame that there's no doubt the Shangri-Las or the Crystals could, to paraphrase Blondie, rip them to shreds.Bob DylanThree years of Bob Dylan's Newport Folk Festival performances, from 1963 to 1965, are collected on DVD on "The Other Side of the Mirror" (Columbia Music Video). In two years, he is transformed from aw-shucks folkie to someone who openly commands the stage. His own performances, from the stubbornly righteous "Who Killed Davey Moore?" to the savagely iconoclastic electric "Maggie's Farm" and the elegiac "It's All Over Now, Baby Blue," are indelible. And it's touching to see the momentum of pop stardom trample the folkies' egalitarian ideals. But also watch the pure, concentrated attention of the audience, including fellow musicians onstage. No one converses; no one has digital gizmos. Nowadays, performers face far more fidgety, distracted crowds: The audience has gone electric.
