Regina Chloe Sekkes, a daughter of Maria R. Sekkes and James A. Sekkes of North Dighton, Mass., was married on Friday to Christopher Joseph Nowselski, a son of Mary Ann Young and Jan Nowselski of Lexington, Mass. The Rev. Dr. William L. Steele, a Presbyterian minister, performed the ceremony at the Reformed Church in Bronxville, N.Y.The bride and bridegroom met at Wheaton College in Norton, Mass., from which they graduated, she cum laude and he magna cum laude.Mrs. Nowselski, 25, is a therapeutic social worker at Abbott House, a foster care agency in Irvington, N.Y. She is also a real estate agent, working with Houlihan Lawrence in Fleetwood, N.Y. She received a master's degree in child development from Sarah Lawrence College. Her father is a software programmer at EquipNet Direct, an Internet technology company in Braintree, Mass.Mr. Nowselski, 28, is a saxophonist who performs with FDR Drive, a band that plays funk, R&B and jazz standards. He is also a music teacher at the Paul Effman Music Company in Plainview, N.Y. His mother is the church administrator at the Winchester Unitarian Society in Winchester, Mass. His father is an electrical engineer in Nashua, N.H., for DTC Communications, a cellular technology company.Are mail packet boats still in existence? We have heard that traveling on one of those is the best way to visit towns and villages up and down the fjords of Norway.  — B. B. Thompson, West Grove, Pa. In fact, because of Norway's geography, the old coastal mail boat steamer routes are essentially the only way to explore the country's isolated communities and the grand northern fjords. Norwegian Coastal Voyage (www.coastalvoyage.com) is the direct descendant of the Bergen Line's mail boats, in operation since 1893 as a lifeline to areas along the country's western coast between Bergen and Kirkenes above the Arctic Circle. According to Hans Rood, president of the company, the line is known as Hurtigruten ("fast route") in Norway. At one time, its ships were considered the fastest way to reach the northern villages from the southern cities.The 16 ships in the fleet are slowly being upgraded and replaced with newer and bigger vessels that may not match the romantic image of small intrepid mail boats delivering eagerly awaited letters to grateful locals. But these ships still deliver small cargo, vehicles — and, yes, even mail. They are also used by locals as transportation.The chief classical music critic of The Times, Anthony Tommasini, wrote about his 2003 adventure among the Norwegian fjords in "Songs of Norway" for the Travel section (June 29, 2003), and recommends the "wonderful and very popular" trip he took, called Norway in a Nutshell (www.norwaynutshell.com). This route is in the southern part of the country, between Bergen and Oslo, and includes a train ride along one of Europe's highest-altitude railways. The fjord cruise section leaves from the village of Flam and explores Naeroyfjord, which was made a Unesco World Heritage Site in 2006 and is one of the narrowest fjords in Europe. Mr. Tommasini completed the trip in 11 hours, but you can extend it to three days if you prefer an unhurried pace. The price ranges from 530 to 1,896 Norwegian kroner, or $91 to $325 at 6 kroner to $1, depending on departure city (Voss, Oslo or Bergen).Are mail packet boats still in existence? We have heard that traveling on one of those is the best way to visit towns and villages up and down the fjords of Norway.  — B. B. Thompson, West Grove, Pa. In fact, because of Norway's geography, the old coastal mail boat steamer routes are essentially the only way to explore the country's isolated communities and the grand northern fjords. Norwegian Coastal Voyage (www.coastalvoyage.com) is the direct descendant of the Bergen Line's mail boats, in operation since 1893 as a lifeline to areas along the country's western coast between Bergen and Kirkenes above the Arctic Circle. According to Hans Rood, president of the company, the line is known as Hurtigruten ("fast route") in Norway. At one time, its ships were considered the fastest way to reach the northern villages from the southern cities.The 16 ships in the fleet are slowly being upgraded and replaced with newer and bigger vessels that may not match the romantic image of small intrepid mail boats delivering eagerly awaited letters to grateful locals. But these ships still deliver small cargo, vehicles — and, yes, even mail. They are also used by locals as transportation.The chief classical music critic of The Times, Anthony Tommasini, wrote about his 2003 adventure among the Norwegian fjords in "Songs of Norway" for the Travel section (June 29, 2003), and recommends the "wonderful and very popular" trip he took, called Norway in a Nutshell (www.norwaynutshell.com). This route is in the southern part of the country, between Bergen and Oslo, and includes a train ride along one of Europe's highest-altitude railways. The fjord cruise section leaves from the village of Flam and explores Naeroyfjord, which was made a Unesco World Heritage Site in 2006 and is one of the narrowest fjords in Europe. Mr. Tommasini completed the trip in 11 hours, but you can extend it to three days if you prefer an unhurried pace. The price ranges from 530 to 1,896 Norwegian kroner, or $91 to $325 at 6 kroner to $1, depending on departure city (Voss, Oslo or Bergen).POPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.BESNARD LAKES, JEALOUS GIRLFRIENDS (Tonight and Sunday) The Besnard Lakes, from Montreal, build childlike, Brian Wilsonesque melodies into fuzz-drenched epics fraught with violence. The Jealous Girlfriends, one of the best new bands in New York, float through soft and erotic clouds of guitar and keyboards that can turn grungy and turbulent; the soft and erotic stuff is what's gotten their music on "Grey's Anatomy." Tonight at 8:30, with Dappled Cities and the Muggabears, at the Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $12. Sunday at 8:30 p.m., with Dirty on Purpose, at Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Ben Sisario)BLACK LIPS (Thursday) Sounding like a nightmarish variant of the 13th Floor Elevators or the Troggs, this Atlanta band plays a grisly version of 1960s garage rock, and its onstage antics have been known to descend into the scatological. With Turbo Fruits and the Coathangers. At 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $12. (Sisario)BOOK OF KNOTS (Tonight) A supergroup the way only a New York avant-garde band can be, the Book of Knots is an occasional project, with members from Skeleton Key, Sleepytime Gorilla Museum, Tin Hat and Pere Ubu. Its second album, "Traineater" (Anti-), is an appropriately clangy elegy for rust-belt Americana; here the band plays what it says is its first and possibly only live performance, with friends Jon Langford of the Mekons and Carla Bozulich of the Geraldine Fibbers. At 8, Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171;  $20. (Sisario)  ★ DECEMBERISTS, GRIZZLY BEAR, LAND OF TALK (Monday) He might not exactly have a lot of competition, but Colin Meloy, the Decemberists' songwriter and strategist, can set old Irish epics and alliterative fables about Dickensian chimney sweeps to prog-folk like nobody else. Grizzly Bear's acoustic guitars and library voices say cozy folk, but the ambition of this Brooklyn band pushes its dreamlike, bewitching songs into uncharted realms. Land of Talk, from Montreal, recalls Dinosaur Jr. and P J Harvey with tangles of grungy guitar and opaque but affecting lyrics. At 6:30 p.m., Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 307-7171, summerstage.org; $30 in advance, $35 at the door. (Sisario) TOUMANI DIABATÉ'S SYMMETRIC ORCHESTRA (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Diabaté, the Malian kora master, plays regular gigs back home  with his big band, mixing ancient songs with salsa-infused funk and lyrical improvisations on the kora, a harplike instrument that allows him to play three parts at once. Wednesday at 7 p.m., Rockefeller Park, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505, rivertorivernyc.com; Thursday at noon, BAM Rhythm & Blues Festival, MetroTech Commons Plaza, Flatbush Avenue and Myrtle Street, downtown Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; both free. (Sisario)ANI DIFRANCO (Wednesday) Ms. DiFranco's articulate, uninhibited songs and poems are about staying true to her complicated self: feisty and vulnerable, polysexual, uncompromising and politically engaged, but never humorless. She can strum a guitar and sling words at hyperspeed, or swerve toward jazz and funk. In business (she runs her own label, Righteous Babe Records) as in her music, she's as independent as they come. At 7:30 p.m., Celebrate Brooklyn, Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, (212) 307-7171, brooklynx.org; $37. (Jon Pareles)DISPATCH (Tonight through Sunday night) Less remarkable for its music — pedestrian college jam-rock — than for its phenomenal grass-roots popularity, this Vermont band attracted more than 100,000 fans to its farewell show in Boston three years ago and sold out this three-night reunion at Madison Square Garden in an instant, largely through MySpace. Proceeds from these shows will go to charities that fight famine and social injustice in Zimbabwe. At 8, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com. (Sisario)FRATELLIS (Wednesday) Like Sweet and Slade before it, this Scottish trio is not afraid to be both tough and silly, employing bubblegum shout-alongs in its stompy, completely catchy hard-rock tunes.  At 7:30 p.m., Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, roselandballroom.com; $22 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sisario)COLIN HAY (Thursday) In the 1980s he was the voice and face of the Australian new-wave oddballs Men at Work, and recently he has been attracting new fans with gentle, ruminative acoustic songs. One, "I Just Don't Think I'll Ever Get Over You," was a heartstopper in the film "Garden State."  At 8:30 p.m., Canal Room, 285 West Broadway, at Canal Street, TriBeCa, (212) 941-8100, canalroom.com; $28 in advance, $32 at the door. (Sisario)LEVON HELM (Tomorrow) After a hiatus for recovery from throat cancer, Mr. Helm, the former drummer of the Band and a singer of hits like "The Weight," has returned with a raspier but still powerfully expressive voice. He plays a "Ramble on the Road" at the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts in Bethel, N.Y., with Leon Russell and Ollabelle, a rootsy five-piece vocal group featuring Mr. Helm's daughter, Amy. At 6:30 p.m., (866) 781-2922, bethelwoodslive.org; $35 to $59.50; lawn tickets, $25. (Sisario)JAMES HUNTER (Wednesday) After years honing his style in London pubs, this dapper yet roguish British singer has emerged with "People Gonna Talk" (Go/Rounder), recreating with care and affection the smooth, slithery R&B of early-1960s American singers like Sam Cooke and Little Willie John. At 7 p.m., Madison Square Park, Madison Avenue at 24th Street, (212) 538-6667, madisonsquarepark.org; free. (Sisario)TOBY KEITH, MIRANDA LAMBERT (Sunday) A multimillion-selling country star whose ever-present smirk is framed by a manicured stubble, Mr. Keith excels equally in salt-of-the-earth patriotic proclamations ("The American Soldier") and salt-of-the-earth Saturday-night proclamations ("Get Drunk and Be Somebody"). With Miranda Lambert, who was robbed of a victory on "Nashville Star" a few years ago but triumphed with a hit album, "Kerosene." At 7:30 p.m., PNC Bank Arts Center, Holmdel, N.J., (732) 335-8698, artscenter.com; $69.75; lawn tickets, $34.75. (Sisario)  ★ LATIN ALTERNATIVE MUSIC CONFERENCE (Tonight and tomorrow) "Rock en Español" may not have lived up to the next-big-thing hype that surrounded it at the start of the decade, but this series, now eight years old, consistently delivers music from the Spanish-speaking world that is vital and innovative but underappreciated by the mainstream (read: English-speaking) American audience. Tonight at Celebrate Brooklyn are Zoé and Chetes, two Mexican rock bands, and the Pinker Tones, a D.J. duo from Barcelona. Tomorrow at Central Park SummerStage is the festival's big star, Café Tacuba, a brilliant and joyous art-rock band from Mexico City. Also on the bill: Pacha Massive, from the Bronx, and La Sista, from Puerto Rico. Tonight at 7:30, Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, (718) 855-7882, brooklynx.org; tomorrow at 3 p.m., Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777, summerstage.org; both free, with suggested donation. (Sisario)HUGH MASEKELA (Tonight) The South African fluegelhorn  player Hugh Masekela has more to offer than his international hit "Grazing in the Grass." For decades he has brought together the three-chord lope of South African pop with the zigzagging possibilities of jazz. He plays the NYC Rockin' the River cruise in celebration of a new album, "Live at the Market Theatre" (Times Square). At 8, Pier 83, 42nd Street at the Hudson River, (212) 630-8888, rtrcruises.com; $40 in advance, $45 at the door. (Pareles)MENOMENA (Tonight) Menomena, from Portland, Ore., uses a homemade computer program to write songs, resulting in shufflings and reshufflings that keep otherwise standard indie-arty elements — meandering piano, sensual electronics, melancholy vocals — playful and fresh. With Beat the Devil. At 7, South Street Seaport, Pier 17, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 835-2789, seaportmusicfestival.com; free. (Sisario)MOONEY SUZUKI (Wednesday) One of the sharpest and loudest garage-rock bands in town — in sound as well as in dress — the Mooney Suzuki draws on the frantic energy of mid-'60s British mod groups like the Who, as well as the bruising blues-rock of Led Zeppelin. With the Muldoons, Stylofone and the Shake. At 7:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10. (Sisario)  ★ OS MUTANTES (Tuesday) The oddest, most exuberant and most wonderfully innovative band of the late-1960s tropicália movement in Brazil — when there was no shortage of odd, exuberant and wonderfully innovative musicians — was Os Mutantes (the Mutants), who filtered psychedelic rock through bossa nova and a do-what-thou-wilt Pop Art philosophy. The band broke up in 1978, but  reunited last year (minus one of its original singers, the inimitable Rita Lee). At 8 p.m., Rose Theater, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $40 and $55. (Sisario)OZRIC TENTACLES (Tonight) England has jam bands, too, and Ozric Tentacles may be the most well-traveled one of them. Its songs start with the suitelike complexities of progressive rock and take off from there. With Future Rock. At 9, Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $22. (Pareles)PONDEROSA STOMP (Tomorrow and Sunday) This New Orleans roots-music festival comes to Hoboken and Brooklyn with Roy Head, Bobby Patterson, Willy Tee, Ray Sharpe and Tommy McClain. Tomorrow at 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $15. Sunday at 2 p.m., McCarren Park Pool, Lorimer Street, between Driggs Avenue and Bayard Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, thepoolparties.com; free. (Sisario)MARC RIBOT (Tuesday) He has played with everybody from John Zorn to Teddy Thompson, but Mr. Ribot remains the rare guitar-for-hire with not only a distinct sound — twangy, earthy, sensual — but a vision as well. At this free concert, he plays solo and with two of his bands, Spiritual Unity and Ceramic Dog. At 7 p.m., World Financial Center Plaza, West Street, south of Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505, rivertorivernyc.com. (Sisario) ★ ST. VINCENT (Tuesday) St. Vincent is Annie Clark, a 24-year-old songwriter whose time as a collaborator of Sufjan Stevens and the Polyphonic Spree did not prepare the world for the brilliance and grandeur of her debut album, "Marry Me" (Beggars Banquet), a small universe of romance that recalls the prime of Kate Bush. With Scout Niblett. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sisario)MICHELLE SHOCKED (Tonight) The peripatetic Ms. Shocked has ambled at whim through folk-rock, reggae, Appalachian songs, punk, swing, blues, and Mexican and Irish music. She adds her unpretentious insights to any music with roots, and she's always adding more styles to the list. At 7, Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea,  (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $45. (Pareles)SHOUT OUT LOUDS (Monday and Tuesday) The Shout Out Louds, from Stockholm, are a record-collection band: you listen to them and check off in your mind which now-fashionable 1980s bands they borrow from, and then you go home and dig out those bands' albums. In the Shout Out Louds' case, you'll be thumbing through the Jesus and Mary Chain and the Cure. Monday at 11:30 p.m., Spiegeltent, Pier 17, South Street, under the Brooklyn Bridge, (212) 279-4200, spiegelworld.com; $25 to $30. Tuesday at 8:30 p.m., with Saturday Looks Good to Me, at Luna Lounge, 361 Metropolitan Avenue, at Havemeyer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, lunalounge.com; $15. (Sisario) ★ SLINT (Tuesday) With its album "Spiderland" in 1991, this band from Louisville, Ky., virtually created the genre that has come to be known (unwelcomely, of course) as post-rock: spindly guitars twisting like ivy around starkly syncopated beats, now and then erupting in spasms of violence. The band broke up before it could exploit the enormous influence it had on '90s underground rock, but reunited two years ago and this summer is on tour performing "Spiderland" in its entirety. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $30 in advance, $35 at the door. (Sisario) SOUNDS OF THE UNDERGROUND TOUR (Tomorrow) An afternoon of fast, pummeling heavy metal characterized by lots of death-and-gore-obsessed lyrics, with Shadows Fall, Testament, Chimaira, Every Time I Die, Necro, Amon Amarth,  the Acacia Strain and Goatwhore. And since the vaudevillian horror-metal band Gwar is on the bill, expect a fair complement of rubber monsters with ripped limbs spurting multicolored blood. At 11 a.m., Starland Ballroom, 570 Jernee Mill Road, Sayreville, N.J., (732) 238-5500, starlandballroom.com; $29 in advance, $33 at the door. (Sisario)THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS (Wednesday) A few things you can count on at a They Might Be Giants show: There will be accordion. There will be two guys with nasal voices singing songs that are almost too silly even for children. There will be gimmick songs about geography. And everyone there will know all the words. With Corn Mo. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $22 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sisario)TEDDY THOMPSON (Tuesday) The son of the great British folk-pop singers Richard and Linda Thompson, Teddy Thompson absorbed some of his parents' pithy melancholy, and his new album, "Up Front and Down Low" (Verve Forecast), has beautifully finessed chamber-pop versions of weepy country standards like "All My Friends Are Gonna Be Strangers" and "Walking the Floor Over You." At 7 p.m., Mo Pitkin's, 34 Avenue A, near Third Street, East Village, (212) 777-5660, mopitkins.com; $15. (Sisario)TOOL (Wednesday) On its latest album, "10,000 Days" (Volcano/Zomba), Tool sticks to a dark, seductive prog-grunge formula, with long, cryptic songs that grow steadily from a bass-heavy lurch to heroic bolts of pure guitar. At 8 p.m., PNC Bank Arts Center, Holmdel, N.J., (732) 335-8698, artscenter.com; $69.25; lawn tickets, $35.25. (Sisario)TRAVIS (Tomorrow and Sunday) Coldplay before there was Coldplay, the Glasgow band Travis turns lovesickness into anthemic bombast. At 8 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; sold out. (Sisario)DRIVING along the fingerlike peninsulas of Grand Traverse Bay, it's easy to see why this part of Michigan calls itself the cherry capital. In spring, dense orchards explode in creamy blossoms, their pink hues like Impressionist smudges against the brilliant blue of Lake Michigan; come July's harvest time, the branches are thick with ruby fruit.But sprouting from the rolling green hillsides between the orchards is evidence of yet another fruitful enterprise — the  neat  rows of vineyards, which are fast turning this area into a destination for oenophiles and casual wine tasters alike."There's a quiet revolution happening here," said Joel Goldberg, editor of the Detroit-based online consumer guide MichWine.com, who spoke between sips and spits at the small Chateau Fontaine Vineyards & Winery on the Leelanau Peninsula. "Go off a side road and through the woods and you'll find a vineyard here, a vineyard there — hundreds of acres of new vineyards are going in all over the place. And there are some real quality wines."Cherries are still a huge draw in these parts — Traverse City, a pleasantly hip town at the southwestern tip of the 32-mile-long bay, has several cherry-product shops and is home to the elaborate National Cherry Festival, a weeklong burst of performances and parades (this year's runs through tomorrow). Michigan generally produces 70 to 75 percent  of the tart cherries (the baking kind) grown in this country, all of which come from this part of the state. But grapes seem to be gently taking the lead when it comes to year-round reasons to visit, and they've wooed some growers away from cherries."The return per acre can be substantially greater from grapes," said Don Coe, a Michigan agricultural commissioner and co-owner of the nine-year-old Black Star Farms, which includes a winery and distillery in Suttons Bay, on the west shore of the bay. It makes sense for farmers to replant cherry orchards with vineyards, he explained, because cherry trees need to be replaced anyway once they mature. "Because the Grand Traverse Bay area is a significant tourist attraction, it makes the winery tasting room all the more logical," Mr. Coe added. "It's a fortuitous confluence."The shores of Grand Traverse Bay are a country of sandy bayfront beaches, wide water vistas dotted with white sails, historic stop-offs and a variety of inns and restaurants. The long Leelanau Peninsula juts north into Lake Michigan, forming the bay's western edge, and the smaller, skinny Old Mission Peninsula projects northward from Traverse City, slicing the interior of the bay in two. It all adds up to more than a hundred miles of waterfront.To ease into your exploration, sidestep Traverse City at first and head due north on Old Mission, a 22-mile strip that's narrow enough in stretches to let you drive up its spine while taking in bay views in both directions. It's home to six wineries, soon to be seven, including the Chateau Grand Traverse and Chateau Chantal, both of which have guest houses with rooms overlooking the vineyards. All offer daily tastings of their rieslings and pinot noirs and, naturally, some version or other of a cloying cherry port."The sweeter the better," admitted both Dave and Debbie Bridgewater, loading up on bottles of their favorites at Chateau Grand Traverse. They were soaking in the calm of the peninsula on a roundabout route from their home near Detroit to their weekend cabin in nearby Lake City. "We come quite a bit — for the wine," said Ms. Bridgewater, 48, a hairdresser.Mr. Bridgewater, a 46-year-old builder who wore a "Chicks dig my ride" T-shirt, said that while they had come by car that afternoon, their usual routine was to cruise up on their Harleys, a favored  transport for many visitors to this region. "The roads are really nice, and there are a lot of elevation changes," he said. "But we really just love the wineries and the water."The peninsula exudes a breezy country vibe, felt on quiet residential streets and in the stuck-in-time Old Mission General Store — opened in a wigwam in 1839 as the first trading post between Detroit and Mackinac Island. It's run now by Jim Richards, a former actor from Detroit who inherited a family cherry orchard and purchased the store nine years ago."I thought it would be a noble cause to preserve this store," said Mr. Richards, his days onstage and in soap operas still evident in his booming voice and jaunty derby (it's a store rule that all the male workers wear period hats, a homage to those in the first photo of the store, in 1863, which is framed and hanging on the wall). There are plenty of other leftovers — creaky wood floors and big wooden barrels of peanuts, an antique Victrola and a heavy, ancient telephone whose receiver Mr. Richards picks up when it ding-a-lings — plus modern additions like store-made cherry salsa, steaming cups of chai and fat Italian sandwiches.Besides just a sprinkling of other businesses — B & Bs, the wineries and another shop or two — the length of Old Mission is a stretch of gently rolling hills, maple syrup stands, red barns and cherry orchards.At the northern tip, almost exactly at a latitude of 45 degrees north, halfway between the Equator and the North Pole, you can stroll onto wide, murky tidal flats and peer out to the bay or back inland, where a clutch of furry pine trees hugs a tiny white church, a squat 1870 lighthouse and the Hesler Log House, an 1856 residence constructed from hand-hewn pines and hemlocks and restored for visitors, complete with period furniture and a faux cherry pie on its front windowsill.Loop back and lose your way on the longer and wider Leelanau Peninsula, exploring winding country roads and precious little towns like Suttons Bay, with a neat row of restaurants and boutiques, and blink-and-you'll-miss-it Lake Leelanau. "This is a unique area," said Jon Payne, a friendly 31-year-old produce and pig farmer who sat at what seemed to be his regular post in the organic-vegetarian cafe Kejara's Bridge in Lake Leelanau. "It attracts creative individuals — people who sacrifice a lot, and are craftspeople and artists who are inspired by the lake and the landscapes."More artists are clustered in the town of Leland, where the prime attraction is Fishtown, a Lilliputian commercial-fishing post where a cluster of worn wooden docks and ramshackle structures hold tiny clothing shops, a sunny pottery studio and seafood stores like Carlson's Fresh and Smoked Fish. A clutch of fishing boats, both working and tourist, come and go, as do ferries to the Manitou Islands, where a group of gear-laden campers had just returned from an excursion on a recent chilly morning.This peninsula's tip, Northport, has a lighthouse, too — the red-roofed and climbable Grand Traverse Lighthouse, whose interior has been restored to its 1920s style. It's  in the 1,300-acre Leelanau State Park, with hiking paths and a leafy campground. The park fronts Lake Michigan, stretching out west toward Wisconsin.THE Leelenau's 13 wineries include the large Black Star, where visitors sample  pinot noir and the winery's own brandy and cheeses under the high, domed roof of a sun-drenched shop and tasting room.Find the most interesting local night life and foodie scene back to the south in Traverse City, where Front Street bustles with weekenders and locals. Shoppers pack into Kilwin's of Michigan, which proffers fat slabs of fudge, and the Cherry Stop boutique, stocked with cherry pie, cherry-pepper jam, cherry-scented candles, cherry-chipotle sauce, cherry body lotion, cherry cookbooks and aprons bearing bold cherry prints.A 10-minute jaunt out of town is a quirky attraction worth searching out: the Music House Museum, a converted 1908 barn housing a stellar collection of automatic musical instruments including a 1924 Wurlitzer theater organ, a gorgeous 1917 Estey pipe organ and an 18-foot-high Mortier dance organ from Belgium, hand-carved out of rosewood in 1922 and sounding like a full, festive band. A walnut and gold-leaf reproducing piano plays rolls remade from those created by George Gershwin, playing his own music as it was transferred onto the rolls."This is exactly how he played 'Rhapsody in Blue,' " said a museum guide, Jack Pechur, adding that the master had imagined that composition, from beginning to end, on a train from New York to Boston. And for nearly five minutes the keyboard dipped and heaved, ghostlike, through the piece, filling the soaring space with the romantic sounds of travel.VISITOR INFORMATIONTHE Cherry Capital Airport is about 10 minutes from downtown Traverse City. American Airlines operates direct flights from a number of cities, while many other  flights go through Detroit.  The peninsulas are easily reachable by car, the farthest point (Northpoint Park), about two hours from the airport.Most area wineries open daily between 10 a.m. and noon and remain open until 5 p.m. Details are at  www.wineriesofoldmission.com and www.lpwines.com.The Traverse City Convention & Visitors Bureau (101 West Grandview Parkway; 800-872-8377; www.visittraversecity.com) has helpful information about the region.The Music House Museum (7377 Route 31 North, Acme; 231-938-9300; www.musichouse.org) is open 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily (Sundays noon to 4) May through October.Sleeping options are plentiful, and include the waterfront Neahtawanta Inn (1308 Neahtawanta Road; 800-220-1415; www.oldmission.com/inn) on Old Mission, offering yoga classes and vegetarian breakfasts and lovely rooms from $105 per night. Or, on Leelanau, try the cozy Korner Kottage (503 North St. Josephs Avenue, Suttons Bay; 888-552-2632; www.kornerkottage.com), with rooms from $148 nightly.
