THE day after she finished her new album at Electric Lady Studios, the West Village recording shrine that Jimi Hendrix built, the multiplatinum R&B singer Erykah Badu was back in her surprisingly modest apartment in Brooklyn, puttering. In the tiny kitchen she poured organic pomegranate juice into a jelly jar, then stretched out on a mattress on the floor as "New AmErykah, Part One (4th World War)," just released  by Universal Motown, played on her laptop. After weeks in the studio, she was so happy to be home that she refused to leave, rescheduling appointments and interviews around her domestic whim and one really, really good bath. (More on that later.)She patted the spot next to her; why not conduct an interview in bed?"This is my museum," Ms. Badu, 37, said of the rent-controlled one-bedroom in Fort Greene where she has lived on and off since coming to New York, demo tape in hand, 11 years ago from her native Dallas, where she was Erica Wright."Since I've been here I've had two children, a few boyfriends, a lot of records," she continued in her slight, girly drawl. "Everyone that comes over here draws on the wall or leaves something. You're looking at my mind when you're looking at these things." Decorating the hallway, for instance, is a three-foot-tall ankh; artwork by her 10-year-old son, Seven, underneath a magazine photo of his father, the rapper André Benjamin of OutKast; yellow caution tape; dried flowers; protest-style placards; and a metal trash can lid, hung on the wall like an art piece. ("I thought it was cute," she said.)As idiosyncratic as the memorabilia on her walls, her first full-length album in eight years is a dense, stylistic mash-up. By turns overtly political and intensely personal, with 1970s-groove instrumentation, hip-hop phrasing and a roster of beats and samples from collaborators like the D.J. and producer Madlib, it is fierce but weird. And apart from "Honey," the bouncy, playful single, it is largely uncommercial. In his review for The New York Times, Ben Ratliff called it "a deep, murky swim in her brain."But after such a prolonged absence its release still feels like a comeback event. Thanks to Ms. Badu's appealingly eccentric neo-soul sex goddess/funky earth mama/black power revolutionary persona, her pipe cleaner of a voice, thin and bendy, her sultry delivery and beauty, she's still a potentially bankable star. (The designer Tom Ford recently named her the face of his forthcoming fragrance.) And with R&B sales down 18 percent last year, the industry seems willing to take a risk on an independent-minded artist, especially one with a following."I think Erykah is one of the few artists that truly does have a movement," said Sylvia Rhone, the president of Universal Motown. "Her music has changed, but she's been feeding people this creative change all these years, and she's stayed very connected with her fan base," through live performances, online groups and other projects like acting in movies. She added that while Janet Jackson's new record may outsell hers at Best Buy and Target, "Erykah will dominate at the independent record stores."After a public bout of writer's block that led to her "Frustrated Artist" tour in 2003 and 2004, Ms. Badu is eager to promote what she calls her magnum opus. "New AmErykah" is part of a creative torrent that includes a sequel record, due in the summer, and an unrelated retro-minded album, "Lowdown Loretta Brown," scheduled for the fall, both on Universal Motown. Ms. Badu also plans to start a lifestyle magazine, The Freaq, this summer; the first issue will come with a copy of "New AmErykah: Part Two." Both records will also be available on a U.S.B.  stick for fans to plug into their computers; for added value Ms. Badu wants to record a U.S.B. commentary track to explain her references and inspiration. A tour will start in May."I swear to God, this must be my artistic peak," Ms. Badu said in an earlier interview at Electric Lady, where she walked around barefoot, belled anklets jingling above her tiny manicured feet. "I hope my sexual peak comes soon too," she added, and laughed. Then, switching to bohemian mama mode: "If something happened to me, I would want them to say, 'This is what your mother was about.' "Ms. Badu is "one of those performers that don't necessarily fit in," said Stephen Hill, executive vice president for music talent and programming at BET, which has been aggressively playing the video for "Honey." "She creates music as she wants to, and then it's up to the public to decide." He added that the new album was "not like anything that's out there, and that's what makes it exciting," especially when the mainstream music business feels slack.Of course Ms. Badu already had a legacy to build on. Her debut album, "Baduizm," released in 1997, sold nearly three million copies, winning her two Grammys and comparisons to Billie Holiday, Diana Ross and Chaka Khan. By the time her follow-up, "Mama's Gun," was released in 2000, she had earned a title: the queen of neo-soul. And she was part of an era of left-of-center black singer-songwriters like Jill Scott, Angie Stone and Macy Gray; her male counterparts included D'Angelo and Maxwell. Like Ms. Badu many of them struggled to keep their creative momentum, conflicted about their early mainstream success."I think most of us went through our psychosomatic, quasi-self-saboteur stage," said ?uestlove, the drummer for the Philadelphia group the Roots and a member of what he called the Soulquarian scene, which flourished in the late '90s and included Ms. Badu and other socially conscious acts like Talib Kweli and Common."Once we got that first taste of success, I think just the pressure of reacting got to all of us. Some of us released some of the craziest records of our career," and some, like D'Angelo, retreated altogether, he said. As Ms. Badu's popularity exploded, there was a backlash, he said. Her hair, her love life, her mystical beliefs all came into question. "Is she real or is she fake, is she pretentious?" he said. "She was thrown off."Suffering from writer's block and plagued by self-doubt — "I felt like a failure," Ms. Badu said — she soured on being the queen of neo-soul. "I hated that because what if I don't do that anymore?" she said. "What if I change? Then that puts me in a penitentiary."She took time off to care for her two children — she also has a daughter, Puma, 3, with the rapper D.O.C. (Her kids' beds, mattresses on the floor, are feet away from hers in her Brooklyn living room. The family mostly lives in a house in Dallas.) Meanwhile the music industry entered the digital age, and Ms. Badu, a self-described "analog girl in a digital world," was in danger of being left behind.But in 2004 ?uestlove gave her a computer — her first — for Christmas. She chatted online with producer friends like him, Q-Tip and J Dilla, and they began to bombard her with music. "Everybody sending me these things, saying, 'Erykah, come on, we want you back, we need you to do this,' " Ms. Badu said.Her son introduced her to GarageBand, the music-making program for Macs, and she was off. With the laptop, "I could be here, in my own space, with headphones on, and the kids could be doing what they doing, and I'm cooking dinner still, I'm making juices still, and it's so easy just to sing," she said. "You got an idea — boom! Idea, boom!"In about a year she wrote more than 75 songs, many of which she split among the three albums. Lyrically "New AmErykah" is charged by a rambling political fervor and a level of introspection that were only hinted at in her previous work. There is hard-boiled speechifying laced with Nation of Islam exultations and occasional clarity. (On "Me," she gives a succinct autobiography: "Had two babies different dudes/ thought for them both my love was true/ that's just me," she sings. "Will I escape this vanity/or will I keep on smoking trees?") Guest musicians include the jazz vibraphonist Roy Ayers and the Mars Volta guitarist Omar Rodriguez-Lopez. Ms. Badu said she did not have a sound in mind for the "New AmErykah" records. "I'm just giving my testimony," she said.The inventive video for "Honey" shows her image inserted into more than a dozen classic album covers, from the Beatles' "Let It Be" to De La Soul's "3 Feet High and Rising," with hairstyles to match. (She makes a particularly convincing Grace Jones.) She conceived it herself, she said, a fitting choice for someone with an ever-evolving, outsize style. The bedroom in her apartment serves mostly as a storage space for a tangle of costumes and Afro wigs (her look for the new album). During the two interviews she once wore a pair of Carol Channingesque black glasses (sans lenses) and once had fake freckles drawn on her cheeks, and never looked any less stunning."You know, you cannot look Erykah Badu directly in the eye," Mr. Hill said. "She will suck you in, and you just want to follow her and make sure everything works out for her."?uestlove agreed. When Ms. Badu arrived in Philadelphia to record in the late '90s, "I noticed that our entire community suddenly wanted to pay us a visit," he said. "It was like everyone she met fell in love with her within five minutes.""We thought we was gonna be fighting each other" over her, he added.Ms. Badu wouldn't say who she's dating now, but "I haven't been single since I was 5," she said. "Ego has to have a boyfriend."As mystical as Ms. Badu's interests are — ancient Egypt, which she calls Kemet, astrology and the power of positive thinking, á la "The Secret" — she is equally grounded in the realities of the contemporary music business."I know Erykah Badu is a brand," she said. "And I try to make sure that I'm on point with that — every part of me. I'm healthy. I make sure I'm at the meeting. I try to be on time.""Try" may be the operative word. Her publicist, working at a computer nearby, looked up skeptically when she said this. "Carla, keep typing," Ms. Badu said mock-authoritatively. She smiled and added, "Hey, procrastination is living."As her publicist no doubt knew, on the morning of the interview Ms. Badu's procrastination included a Very Important and Much-Delayed Bath. It was so relaxing and emotionally potent — she talked about it in response to a question about finding her spirituality — that it led to the cancellation of a photo shoot and other meetings."I hadn't been away from that studio, girrrl — I was using the funk," she said. "That's why you hear it, I was so funky."As she floated in the tub ("I always go all the way underneath the water and try to hold my breath a long time," she said), she had a revelation: "Different thoughts kept coming into my head. The first thought was, ooh, I wonder if my hair gonna be cute when I get out. And then another voice over me said, Ego, we need you, we're going to need you for our mission. And another voice over my head goes, oh, Willpower, bless your heart, you're going to be stronger soon. And then another voice — oh Heart, you're so compassionate, you have to toughen up a little."I figured out, like, wow, all of these things in me are fighting to have a space all the time, and it's like a dialogue going on inside of me all the time."Ms. Badu is certain her fans are now ready to hear it. "Being humble is so  2007," she said. "Trust me."In its three Examining Late Style programs at Weill Recital Hall, the Brentano String Quartet is playing music that composers wrote late in their careers. As unifying concepts go, this has a guarantee of quality built in: few composers were considered to be at their best in their early years, and late works almost always have a patina of experience and depth.But the opening program, on Wednesday evening, also made it clear that lateness can be both relative and circumstantial. Mozart wrote his Quartet in B flat (K. 589) in 1790, the year before he died. He was 34. And in 1997, when Elliott Carter composed his Piano Quintet, he was 89; but he has composed copiously since then, in a style that continues to evolve.Still, the notion is generally sound, and this ensemble's velvety tone and interpretive intensity is ideal for music of maturity and emotional weight. The players established that much in the first dozen bars of the Mozart, which opened the program. Their reading of the opening Allegro was soft-spoken and reserved, though by no means distant. And if Mozart was not famously patient, this quartet — and more crucially, this warm-toned performance of it — showed patience to be a quality he could capture in his work, if not in his personality.The Carter quintet, by contrast, is about restlessness. Mr. Carter was intent on finding ways to keep the piano and string lines independent, and he succeeded, mostly by playing on the different ways that pianos and bowed instruments produce and sustain sounds.Just two days before the Brentano concert, the Juilliard Quartet and the pianist Gilbert Kalish played this work at the Juilliard School. In that energetic performance the processes and techniques that drive Mr. Carter's music caught the ear. In the Brentano performance, with the pianist Thomas Sauer, the perspective was entirely different: technique was secondary to the sheer magic of the constantly shifting flow of timbres that emerge as the five instrumental lines are alternately intertwined and dispersed.For music with the aura of finality, but also the sense of unfulfilled intention, the quartet played the final Contrapunctus of "The Art of Fugue." Bach left the work unfinished at his death, and the quartet did not offer a proposed completion: they simply let it trail off where Bach left it, and having asked the audience to hold its applause, moved directly to a dark-hued, rhythmically sharp-edged and deeply affecting account of Bartok's String Quartet No. 6.STEPHEN MALKMUS & THE JICKS"Real Emotional Trash"(Matador)For almost 20 years, back to his beginnings in the band Pavement, Stephen Malkmus has been famous for writing lyrics that carried no trace of rock 'n' roll sentiment. High on their own internal music, juggling vocabularies and voices, they gave no warning when their stories or rants or descriptions were going to lapse into nonsense. They were powerfully, haughtily non-sequiturial, and sung in a non-singer's voice.But part of Mr. Malkmus was drawn to the most sentimental rock of all: late 1960s hippie-rock, with the kind of all-consuming guitar fuzz and improvising that have always been understood (and written about) as a route to higher consciousness. This led to a pretty effective paradox on the Pavement album "Wowee Zowee" (1995), and since he started making his own records seven years ago, he has been slowly turning up the knob on it."Real Emotional Trash," his fourth album since the disbanding of Pavement, still has all that glibly indirect lyric writing. (Like this, from "Cold Son": "to my wheel-well you're getting close/so say adios/the conjecture is reject the rose.") But it's a record that builds serious, musical and very direct jamming into nearly every song. Its peaks ("Hopscotch Willie," "Real Emotional Trash," "Elmo Delmo") are multipart bonanzas with long minor-key guitar solos over vamps and steady, patient, midtempo grooves. The album is both a generous, transparent body  pleasure and a flinty, oblique mind pleasure. It's like being hit over the head with a deadpan.It's also well rehearsed, with dynamic hills and dales. His band the Jicks, with a strong new drummer — Janet Weiss, once of Sleater-Kinney — helps bring the large-canvas energy of a concert, specifically one that might have been played many years ago by the Doors, the Grateful Dead or the Allman Brothers. BEN RATLIFFMICHAEL MCDONALD"Soul Speak"(Motown/Universal)Michael McDonald stretches out just a little on "Soul Speak," the latest in a trilogy of jukebox releases that began with "Motown" and "Motown Two." Like its competent and commercially successful predecessors, this new record mainly confirms Mr. McDonald's stature in the related realms of blue-eyed soul and adult contemporary pop. And despite some misguided song selections — stretching out, even just a little, isn't always a good thing — it's the strongest of the three.Cover tunes can be a tricky business even for a veteran like Mr. McDonald, who stepped out as a solo artist only after memorable work with the Doobie Brothers and Steely Dan. Probably the worst thing for him here would be to evoke the contestants on "American Idol." (In particular: Taylor Hicks, who won in 2006 with what often seemed like a Michael McDonald impersonation.) Mr. McDonald veers perilously close to that fate with a glib rendition of Bob Marley's "Redemption Song" and a redundant take on Stevie Wonder's "Living for the City." (Hey, didn't Mr. Hicks do that one?)But another classic associated with Mr. Wonder, "For Once in My Life," works nicely, receiving the imprimatur of a harmonica solo by Mr. Wonder himself. And Mr. McDonald finds equally solid footing with "(Your Love Keeps Lifting Me) Higher and Higher," a hit for Jackie Wilson.The producer Simon Climie wisely organized "Soul Speak" as a live recording date, enlisting seasoned studio musicians. He also worked with Mr. McDonald on two of the album's three originals, an effective throwback called "Still Not Over You (Getting Over Me)" and a Doobie-suitable pop tune called "Enemy Within."Because Mr. McDonald has such a warm, recognizable voice — and so much control as a singer, in terms of phrasing as well as grain — he makes the new songs sound reasonable alongside the old ones. But his style feels contrived on Leonard Cohen's "Hallelujah." (Couldn't we all agree at this point to leave that song to Mr. Cohen, Jeff Buckley and a small coterie of proven stewards, like Lizz Wright?)More often on "Soul Speak" Mr. McDonald walks a fine interpretive line, respecting the songs and their singers without contorting himself. On a simmering "Love T.K.O.," he manages quietly to personalize Teddy Pendergrass; he nearly does the same with Van Morrison on "Into the Mystic," the album's most pleasant surprise.Given how effective Mr. McDonald can be with this material, he'll surely tackle more of it, and not just at the Blue Note, where he appears on Tuesday and Wednesday nights. However you feel about such appropriation, you might as well get used to the idea of white-haired soul.NATE CHINENDJ DRAMA AND B.G."Hood Generals: Gangsta Grillz Special Edition" (mixtape)A little over a year ago DJ Drama, one of hip-hop's top mixtape D.J.'s, was arrested on racketeering charges by officers working in cooperation with the Recording Industry Association of America. The association considers mixtapes — unlicensed compilations —  a form of piracy, but labels often use them as marketing tools. For a while DJ Drama laid low; then, late last year, with charges still pending, he returned with "Gangsta Grillz: The Album" (Atlantic), a licensed mixtape that was his underwhelming major-label debut.Listeners hungry for an old-fashioned, illegal DJ Drama mixtape should be heartened by the appearance of "Hood Generals," starring the veteran New Orleans rapper B.G. And anyone with an interest in record-company hypocrisy should note that "Hood Generals" seems suspiciously like a major-label promotional item, designed to generate interest in B.G.'s forthcoming album, "2 Hood 2 B Hollywood," scheduled to be released on — hey! — Atlantic Records.In any case, both of them — B.G. and the guy who now calls himself Barack Odrama — sound great. In a slurred interlude B.G. talks about his years as a heroin addict. "I went from snorting dope to shooting dope," he says. And he pays tribute to his former musical partner Lil Wayne, rapping, "I remember the Hot Boy$, wasn't nothing could stop us/I never told you, but I'm proud of everything you accomplished." T.I., another Atlantic Records artist (hmm), shows up to lend support, but DJ Drama keeps the focus on B.G.'s voice, a thick, nasal, sing-song drawl that makes consonants seem unnecessary. If this is all a major-label anticipation-stoking scheme — well, it's working. KELEFA SANNEHKATHLEEN EDWARDS"Asking for Flowers" (Zoë)A few of the characters Kathleen Edwards sings about on her third album, "Asking for Flowers," are probably Ms. Edwards herself: a Canadian songwriter with a breathy but obstinate voice who has played her country-rooted rock on tour far and wide. "I've been on the road too long to sympathize/With what you think you're owed," she jabs at a musician who "spends his days living in egoland" in "The Cheapest Key."Yet "Asking for Flowers" isn't exactly Ms. Edwards's road-warrior album. It's about separation, whether it's a musician's homesickness or losing a loved one forever. In the title song, a breakup ballad, she ponders the "fading memory of all the things I tried to get right."Ms. Edwards made her 2005 album "Back to Me" with her working band, and while members also play on "Asking for Flowers," the new album relies largely on studio musicians. They make Ms. Edwards's music more measured, suiting songs that are less contentious than she was on "Back to Me" and on her debut, "Failer." The studio players add both flexibility and delicacy, as in "Goodbye California," a bleary late-night barroom conversation that drifts toward dawn in a long, graceful instrumental coda.One narrator is definitely fictitious: the woman who opens a song with "Choosing my words carefully/has never been my strength." That wouldn't be Ms. Edwards, a storyteller so succinct that listeners may have to infer what really happened in a song. In "Run" a female doctor remembers the day she was called to an accident scene where, perhaps, her son had just been killed. In "Alicia Ross" a girl  is suddenly grabbed by a man she had her eye on. He "laid me in his garden/All the years I've watched him tend" and, more ominously, "took me, Mamma, so I could never tell you about it." Was she murdered?Song for song, the album falls short of "Back to Me." It could use more of her old feistiness. But even the quieter, kindlier Ms. Edwards stays both tuneful and observant. JON PARELES Before the Escher String Quartet's concert on Sunday afternoon at the New School, part of the Schneider Concerts series, a gentleman in the audience remarked to his companion that there was once a "civilized time" when string quartets sat down to play. While not quite a trend, standing up to perform has become more common recently, with prominent ensembles like the Emerson, Brodsky and Skampa string quartets playing chairless (except for the cellist).There was certainly nothing uncivilized about the assured performance of the Escher quartet (founded in 2005), three of whose players stood and seemed entirely at ease on their feet. The individual and sometimes concertolike playing of the four young musicians — Adam Barnett-Hart, first violinist; Wu Jie, second violinist; Andrew Janss, cellist; and Pierre Lapointe, violist — was notable for its polish and tonal beauty.The concert began with Haydn's String Quartet in B flat , "Sunrise," whose nickname derives from an opening violin melody that soars above the sustained harmonies of the other strings. Mr. Barnett-Hart, a fine leader who often didn't look at the score during the concert, played evocatively, with his colleagues then shading the shared melody with varied nuance.The clouds gathered for Zemlinsky's darkly soulful six-movement String Quartet No. 4 (Op. 25). In 1902, Zemlinsky wrote to Schoenberg, his student, that "a great artist, who possesses everything needed to express the essentials, must respect the boundaries of beauty, even if he extends them far further than hitherto." In this infrequently programmed quartet, written in 1936 shortly after the death of Berg, Zemlinsky indulges a heavy flirtation with dissonance but never commits to a fully atonal affair.There are also moments of generous lyricism, like an eloquent cello solo, which Mr. Janss played beautifully with a smooth, singing tone. The musicians vividly illuminated the contrasting moods, from the somber opening melody to the spiky Burleske and the relentlessly driven concluding fugue.After intermission the Escher performed Ravel's Quartet in F. The third movement, marked "Très lent," was particularly eloquent, distinguished by its gossamer pianissimos and languid elegance.Jeff Healey, a Canadian guitarist, singer and songwriter whose band sold millions of blues-rock records and who also pursued a passion for old-time jazz, playing the trumpet and clarinet, died on Sunday in Toronto. He was 41.He died of lung cancer, his publicists said.Mr. Healey, who was blind, played his guitar with the instrument flat on his lap, resulting in what Guitar Player magazine called "astoundingly fluid bends and vibrato." He blended jazz, rock and the blues.Mr. Healey's greatest success came in the late 1980s, when his band recorded the album "See the Light."  It reached platinum status in the United States by selling more than one million copies and eventually two million worldwide. A single from that album, "Angel Eyes," was the Jeff Healey Band's only Top 40 hit, reaching No. 5 on the Billboard Hot 100 in September 1989.The same year the band performed the soundtrack for "Road House," a movie starring actor Patrick Swayze. The band also had speaking parts. Soon the group was big enough to be booked in stadiums.Mr. Healey also played the trumpet and clarinet in his own traditional jazz band, the Jazz Wizards. He collected as many as 30,000 old-time jazz records, mainly those on 78 r.p.m., which he played as the host of an hour-long radio show on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.Mr. Healey, son of a firefighter, was born and raised near Toronto. He lost his sight to eye cancer when he was a year old  and was given his first guitar two years later. At a school for the blind, he was shown how to play the guitar the usual way but found it felt more comfortable on his lap.At  a Toronto-area high school he played the guitar and trumpet in school bands. His early guitar inspirations were country stylists like Chet Atkins, but he moved on to Eric Clapton, Jimi Hendrix and B. B. King, according to the reference work Contemporary Musicians. He studied music theory on his own.He formed the Jeff Healey Band in 1985, with the drummer Tom Stephen and the bassist Joe Rockman. The trio gave as many as 300 concerts a year for about two years before signing with Arista Records in 1988.  Their second album for the label (after "See the Light") was "Hell to Pay," which featured guest artists including George Harrison.As the group's popularity grew, so did their concert venues.  Jon Pareles, writing in The New York Times in 1989,  described the band's music as "showy, arena-style blues rock," although he praised Mr. Healey's technique.In 1990, a reader poll in Guitar Player magazine named Mr. Healey the best blues guitarist and best new talent.Mr. Healey is survived by his wife, Cristie; his daughter, Rachel; and his son, Derek.By 2002, Mr. Healey had opened a music club named after himself in Toronto; he later closed it to open a larger one. In 2003, he started his jazz band.He made a total of 10 albums, including both jazz and blues-rock; it would be hard to guess that some of the albums were by the same artist. In January 2007, Guitar Player said, "Jeff Healey may be the only cat around who can play the prewar jazz of Louis Armstrong on the trumpet, and the heavy electric blues-rock of ZZ Top on the guitar."COMEDYENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center Ron White, stand-up comedian from the Blue Collar Comedy Tour. Thursday at 8 p.m. $39 to $99. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts  Rob Bartlett, stand-up. March 8 at 8 p.m. $45 to $55. The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts , 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.FILMRED BANK Count Basie Theater "Take Nine at the Basie: Nine Decades of Film Classics," free screenings: "Casablanca," directed by Michael Curtiz. Tuesday at 5 p.m. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org.FOR CHILDRENATLANTIC HIGHLANDS First Avenue Playhouse "Beauty and the Beast," presented by the Paper Moon Puppet Theater. Through March 22. $9. First Avenue Playhouse, 123 First Avenue. (732) 291-7552; www.firstavenueplayhouse.com.BRANCHBURG The Theatre, Raritan Valley Community College The Theater's Sampler Series: "Peter and the Wolf/Beauty and the Beast," a performance by the New Jersey Ballet Company. Ages 4 and up. March 2 at 1 and 3:30 p.m. $10. Theater at Raritan Valley Community College, Route 28 and Lamington Road in North Branch. (908) 725-3420; www.rvccarts.org.CAPE MAY Emlen Physick Estate "Cape May Family Treasure Hunt," self-guided family tours; continuing. $5. Emlen Physick Estate, 1048 Washington Street. (800) 275-4278; www.capemaymac.org.EAST RUTHERFORD Izod Center Ringling Brothers and Barnum &  Bailey presents "Over the Top," a circus spectacular. Wednesday through March 9. $15 to $150. Izod Center, 50 Route 120. (201) 507-8900; www.meadowlands.com.MONTCLAIR Luna Stage "Rapunzel," musical comedy presented by Running Rabbit Family Theater. Through March 9. $14. Luna Stage, 695 Bloomfield Avenue. (973) 744-3309.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts "Sunday Kids Club." AudraRox, pop music for children. March 2 at 1:30 and 4 p.m. $12. The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater "Milk and Cookies," interactive African storytelling by Dylan Pritchett. March 8 at 10 a.m. and noon. Free. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; www.statetheatrenj.org.WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College "Stone Soup," a musical based on a classic fairy tale, presented by the Children's Theater. March 8 at 2 and 4 p.m. $10 to $16. "Strike up the Band," an interactive kid-friendly concert. March 15 at 2 and 4 p.m. $8 and $10. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org.MUSIC AND DANCEENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center The Beach Boys, pop. March 2 at 7 p.m. $37 to $110. "Too Hip for the Room Cabaret Series," with performance by the singer-songwriter Kate Taylor. Thursday at 7 and 9:30 p.m. $50. The Chieftains, traditional Irish music. March 8 at 8 p.m. $35 to $97. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org.HACKENSACK Edward Williams Building Auditorium, Fairleigh Dickinson University "Schumann's World," a concert featuring four selections from the works of Bach, Brahms and Schumann. March 9 at 3 p.m. Free. Edward Williams Building Auditorium, Fairleigh Dickinson University, 150 Kotte Place. (201) 692-7028.LAWRENCEVILLE Jacobs Music Recital Hall Alex Ruvinstein, pianist, will perform works by Bach, Chopin and Ravel. March 9 at 3 p.m. $8 and $15. Jacobs Music Recital Hall, 2540 Brunswick Pike. (609) 434-0222; www.jacobsmusic.com.MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University "With Knots," a dance ensemble created for and featuring  CoisCéim, the Irish  dance company. Thursday through March 9. $15. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112; www.montclair.edu/kasser.MORRISTOWN Minstrel Coffeehouse, Morristown Unitarian Fellowship Cindy Kallet and Grey Larsen,  folk. Friday at 8 p.m. $7. Minstrel Coffeehouse, Morristown Unitarian Fellowship, 21 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 335-9489.MORRISTOWN Morristown United Methodist Church "Abendmusik," performance by the Albers Trio. March 8 at 7:30 p.m. $12 and $15. Morristown United Methodist Church, 50 Park Place. (973) 538-2132.MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts "Romeo and Juliet," presented by the St. Petersburg Ballet Theater. March 13 at 8 p.m. $32 to $47. The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org.NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater "In the Trail of the Ghawazee," featuring the dancer Leila Haddad  and  the Gypsy Musicians of Upper Egypt.  March 8 at 8 p.m. $25 to $55. "Blast," a musical event featuring classical, blues, jazz, rock 'n' roll, and techno-pop music. March 11 at 8 p.m. $20 to $55. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; www.statetheatrenj.org.NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center Prokofiev's "Romeo and Juliet," performed by the Tchaikovsky Ballet and Orchestra. March 2 at 4 p.m. $21 to $79. Jill Scott, soul/R&B singer. Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m. $45 to $85. The New Jersey Symphony Orchestra and the vocalist Cathie Ryan present a Celtic celebration featuring a medley of Irish tunes. March 8 at 8 p.m. $22 to $80. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org.RED BANK Count Basie Theater "Love, Janis,"  musical portraying the life of Janis Joplin. Thursday at 8 p.m. $20 to $49.50.  B. B. King, blues. March 9 at 7 p.m. $38 to $175. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org.SUMMIT Summit High School The Summit Symphony Orchestra, works by Weber, Bruch and Mendelssohn. March 9 at 3 p.m. Free. Summit High School, 125 Kent Place Boulevard. (908) 273-1494.OUTDOORSCAPE MAY Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts "Ghosts of Cape May Trolley Tour,"  guided tour of Cape May. Through March 22. $5 and $10. Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts, 1048 Washington Street. (609) 884-5404; www.capemaymac.org.SPOKEN WORDLEONIA Civil War Drill Hall Theater "Coffeehouse Cabaret," featuring writers, poets and musicians. March 2 at 3 p.m. $25. Civil War Drill Hall Theater, 130 Grand Avenue. (201) 947-9606.PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center "In Their Own Voices," award-winning writers and composers reading and performing excerpts from their  works in progress. Through Monday. Free. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; www.mccarter.org.THEATERCAPE MAY First Presbyterian Church "Sherlock Holmes's Adventure of the Speckled Band,"  a vintage radio broadcast with live sound effects. Friday and March 8 at 8 p.m. $10 and $20. First Presbyterian Church, 500 Hughes Street. (609) 884-5898; www.eastlynnetheater.org.GLASSBORO Tohill Theater "Spring Awakening," musical by Frank Wedekind and translated by Douglas Langworthy. Through March 9. $5 and $10. Tohill Theater, Rowan University. (856) 256-4545.HADDONFIELD Haddonfield Plays and Players Theater "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," drama by Dale Wasserman. Through March 8. $14 and $16. Haddonfield Plays and Players Theater, 957 East Atlantic Avenue. (856) 429-8139.LINCROFT Henderson Theater "Oklahoma," musical presented by the Pegasus Production Company. Through March 31. $6 to $13. Henderson Theater, 850 Newman Springs Road. (732) 758-1118; www.premiertheatre.com.LONG BRANCH New Jersey Repertory Company "Engaging Shaw," a romantic comedy by John Morogiello with excerpts from George Bernard Shaw. March 13 through April 13. $30 to $50. New Jersey Repertory Company, 179 Broadway. (732) 229-3166; www.njrep.org.MILLBURN Paper Mill Playhouse "Steel Magnolias," drama by Robert Harling. Wednesday through April 6. $29.25 to $88.25. Paper Mill Playhouse, 3 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; www.papermill.org.NEW BRUNSWICK George Street Playhouse "The Scene," comedy by Theresa Rebeck.  Through March 23. $28 to $62. George Street Playhouse, 9 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7717; www.georgestplayhouse.org.NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center "The Peking Acrobats,"  gymnasts, jugglers, cyclists and tumblers from China. March 9 at 3 p.m. $21 to $79. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org.ORADELL Little Firehouse Theater "Angel Street," presented by the Bergen County Players. Through March 8. $5 to $19. Little Firehouse Theater, 298 Kinderkamack Road. (201) 261-4200.PARAMUS Bergen Community College "Proof," drama by David Auburn. Through March 2. $5 and $10. Bergen Community College, 400 Paramus Road. (201) 447-7428.PERRYVILLE Hunterdon Hills Playhouse "Barefoot in the Park," comedy by Neil Simon. Through March 18. $53 to $61.50. Hunterdon Hills Playhouse, 88 Route 173 West. (800) 447-7313; www.hhplayhouse.com.PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center "The Mad 7," musical written and performed by Yehuda Hyman. Through March 9. $12. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; www.mccarter.org.MUSEUMS AND GALLERIESCAMDEN  Camden County Historical Society  "Lullaby for Dreamland: The Dreamland Cafe in Lawnside," historic photographs of jazz clubs and other night life in Lawnside, the first incorporated African-American town north of the Mason-Dixon line. Through April 10. Free. Hours: Sundays noon to 5 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays 12:30 to 4:30 p.m. Camden County Historical Society, 1900 Park Boulevard. (856) 964-3333; www.cchsnj.com.CAPE MAY Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts "Proudly We Serve: Our African American Military Experience, From the Civil War Forward," an exhibit that highlights the contributions of African-Americans in photographs and artifacts. Through April 13. $1 and $2; free with a tour: $5 and $10. Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts, 1048 Washington Street. (609) 884-5404; www.capemaymac.org.CLINTON Hunterdon Museum of Art "Cuba! Artists Experience Their Country," an exhibition exploring the social, cultural and political aspects of Cuban life. Through March 30. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415.CRANFORD Tomasulo Gallery, Union County College "Hero and Monster," an exhibition of mixed-media works by Victor Davson.  Through Thursday. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays and Saturdays, 1 to 4 p.m. Additional hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 6 to 9 p.m. Tomasulo Gallery, Union County College, 1033 Springfield Avenue. (908) 709-7155.DEMAREST Mikhail Zakin Gallery An exhibition of drawings by Zaria Forman and Catherine Minnery. Through Friday. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Mikhail Zakin Gallery, 561 Piermont Road. (201) 767-7160; www.tasoc.org.HANOVER Morris County Library "Celebrating Black American Artist Peter Ambush," an exhibition featuring his work. Through Thursday. Free. Morris County Library, 30 East Hanover Avenue in Whippany.   (973) 285-6939.HOPEWELL Gallery 14 "Translations," photographs by Rhoda Kassof-Isaac. Through March 9. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Gallery 14, 14 Mercer Street. (609) 333-8511.JERSEY CITY  Grassroots Arts Facility "Introversions," paintings by Gordon Fraser. Through March 21. Thursdays through Saturdays, 3 to 8 p.m. Grassroots Arts Facility, 143 Christopher Columbus Drive. (610) 209-5059.JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center "Race: Are We So Different?" Exhibition bringing together the experience of living with race, its history as an idea and the role of science in that history. Through April 27. $11.50 and $15.75. Liberty Science Center, Liberty State Park, 251 Phillip Street. (201) 200-1000; www.lsc.org.JERSEY CITY  New Jersey City University, Visual Arts Gallery "Mother Cuts: Experiments in Film and Video," an exhibition of audio-visual works by four artists. Wednesday through April 11. Free. "Sustaining Vision: A Tribute to Arlene Raven," a multimedia exhibition by eight female artists. Wednesday through April 16. Free. New Jersey City University, Visual Arts Gallery, 100 Culver Avenue. (201) 200-3246.MANALAPAN Monmouth County Library "An American in China," photographs by Arthur Krasinsky. Tuesday through March 31. Free. Monmouth County Library, 125 Symmes Drive. (732) 431-7242.MORRIS TOWNSHIP Morris Museum "Stepping Out in Style: Outerwear of the Last 150 Years." Through May 4. $6 to $8; free on Thursdays, from 5 to 8 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700; www.morrismuseum.org.NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation "Magyar Grafika: Hungarian Posters, Advertising and Ephemera," an exhibition featuring 75 posters from the 1900s to the '80s. March 16 through Sept. 14. $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. (732) 846-5777.NEW BRUNSWICK Rutgers University, Douglass Library "Tiger by the Tail! Women Artists of India Transforming Culture — Part 1," an exhibition of contemporary Indian art. Through July 31. Free. Rutgers University, Douglass Library, 8 Chapel Drive. (732) 932-9407; www.libraries.rutgers.edu/rul/exhibits/dana_womens.shtml.NEW MILFORD Art Center of Northern New Jersey "Journeys in the Third Dimension," a group show featuring 17 sculptors. Through March 25. Free. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Art Center of Northern New Jersey, 250 Center Street. (201) 599-2992.NEWARK The Newark Museum  "O, Write My Name: American Portraits  — Harlem Heroes," an exhibition of 50 portrait photographs by Carl Van Vechten between 1930 and 1960. Through June 15. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; October through June, Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; July through September, Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6493; www.newarkmuseum.org.FOR CHILDREN'ARCHAEOLOGY ZONE: DISCOVERING TREASURES FROM PLAYGROUNDS TO PALACES' (Saturday through Thursday) Children will step into the shoes of an explorer like Indiana Jones in this exhibition at the Jewish Museum, but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of excitement in analyzing artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle, and figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show also includes a recreated home from the Ottoman period (about 1900), where young archaeologists can dress in costume. (Through June 15, 2009.) Saturday through Wednesday, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., and Thursday to 8 p.m., 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. Free with admission: $12; $10 for 65+; $7.50 for students; free for under 12, members and for all on Saturdays.'ARE YOU FEELING LUCKY?' (Friday) While this title may remind adults of a chilling scene in an old "Dirty Harry" movie, the reference in this case is to the luck of the Irish, the theme for a family celebration of St. Patrick's Day. Part of the Family Fun Fridays series at the West Side Y.M.C.A., the event will include a four-leaf-clover search, holiday-theme crafts (like shamrock wreaths and charm bracelets), food and games. From 6:30 to 8:30 p.m., 5 West 63rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 875-4218, ymcanyc.org/westside; free.ASTROGRASS FOR KIDS (Sunday) Who says that Brooklyn can't give roots to bluegrass? Astrograss, which hails from that borough, offers the genre, along with folk music and comedy, for ages 5 and older. Typical shows include hoedown contests and musical interpretations of Shel Silverstein's poetry. This one celebrates the group's first full-length children's CD, "Astrograss Stays Up All Night." But don't worry; it's a matinee. At noon, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555 (tickets), (212) 539-8778 (table reservations), joespub.com; $15; $12 for ages 12 and under; $12 minimum at tables.BABY LOVES DISCO (Saturday) And so do Mommy and Daddy, who can enjoy these afternoon dance parties — with bona fide D.J.'s and '70s and '80s hits — along with their offspring. Unlike clubs, these disco gatherings feature diaper-changing stations, and unlike playgrounds, they also have fully stocked cash bars. From 2 to 5 p.m., Club Element, 225 East Houston Street, Lower East Side, babylovesdisco.com; $15 for those big enough to walk.BAX/BROOKLYN ARTS EXCHANGE SPRING/SUMMER OPEN HOUSE (Saturday) This Brooklyn organization promises to have classes and workshops to fascinate children from 1 to 18. Prospective participants and their families can tour the building, meet the staff and register for activities like spring dance and theater classes and summer arts programs. From noon to 2 p.m., 421 Fifth Avenue, at Eighth Street, Park Slope, (718) 832-0018, bax.org; free.'BRAIN TEASERS' (Saturday through Thursday) Intellects need exercise too, and this exhibition is intended to be push-ups for gray matter. Devised by the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry, it consists of 20 challenges, including number games, visual puzzles and, in one case, handcuffs made of rope. It even includes an enigma, called the Five-Room House, that has never been solved. (Through May 4.) At the Staten Island Children's Museum, 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, (718) 273-2060, statenislandkids.org. Hours: Monday through Friday, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free with admission: $5; free for members.'BRAINS AND PUPPETS' (Saturday and Sunday) Children who see the world differently from their peers are the subjects of this program, consisting of two one-act plays by Edward Einhorn. "The Boy Who Wanted to Be a Robot" examines Asperger's syndrome through the tale of a child who has been raised by robots and feels ill at ease among humans. "The Taste of Blue" is about a teenage girl with synesthesia, the rare brain condition that causes sensory perceptions to be confused. (Through March 15.) Saturday at 6 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Walkerspace, 46 Walker Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101; $10.'THE BUTTONHOLE BANDIT: AN INTERGALACTIC MUSICAL FANTASY' (Saturday and Sunday) You never know what you might find buried in a child's messy closet. In Phoebe's case it's an entire galaxy. This new show by Mary Fengar Gail, produced by the Looking Glass Theater, follows the adventures of Phoebe as she helps save the galaxy in the company of an alien called Melf the Gelf. (Through April 6.) Saturdays at noon and 2 p.m., Sundays at 2 and 4 p.m., 422 West 57th Street, Clinton, (212) 307-9467, lookingglasstheatrenyc.com; $15; $12 for 12 and under.'THE CAT AND THE FIDDLES' (Saturday and Sunday) The Lolli-Pops concerts from the Little Orchestra Society, geared to ages 3 to 5, use friendly animal characters like Bang, Bow, Buzz and Toot to introduce music: in this case the strings. Children will travel to Stringfield, an imaginary town, where they will encounter the works of Vivaldi, Bach, Strauss and others. Saturday at 10:30 a.m. and noon, Sunday at 1 and 2:30 p.m., Kaye Playhouse, 68th Street between Lexington and Park Avenues, (212) 971-9500, littleorchestra.org; $10 and $40.THE CHILDREN'S THEATER COMPANY (Saturday) In New York you're never too little for the stage, and this company welcomes actors as young as 4 or 5, as well as those much older. Its latest showcase features the premieres of three short musicals: "The Ugly Duckling," an updated version of the Andersen tale that also deals with human forms of discrimination; "The Lorax & Money Bags," an adaptation of Dr. Seuss's story "The Lorax" highlighting environmental themes; and "Wayward Knight," whose title character ends up serving the public rather than the king. (Through March 16.) At 4:30 p.m., Baha'i Unity Center, 53 East 11th Street, Greenwich Village, childrenstheatercompany.org. Reservations required: (212) 633-6629. $12.'CHOCOLATE AND VANILLA ADVENTURES' (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) This is the kind of exploring anyone can do: a discovery of the wonderful plants that give us chocolate and vanilla at the New York Botanical Garden. Children will examine vanilla beans and vanilla orchids and chocolate seeds and spices, and keep a field journal. And yes, tasting is involved. (Through April 6.) Open weekdays from 1:30 to 5:30 p.m. and Saturdays and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. in the botanical garden's Everett Children's Adventure Garden, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. Grounds admission: $6; $3 for 65+; $2 for students; $1 for 2 through 12. Admission to the Everett garden: $3; $1 for 2 through 12.'A DOLPHIN UP A TREE!' (Saturday and Sunday) The only dolphins around New York can be found in the water, typically in the aquarium on Coney Island. But these days at least one member of the species occupies a far more unusual position: up a tree in Manhattan. The title character in this show by Kimberly Foster (book and lyrics) and John Fleming (music and lyrics) is actually a little girl named Tina, and she has far more to worry about than just being beached in some branches. For ages 2 to 8, the musical is in an open-ended run. At 10:30 a.m. and noon, DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200; $20.FUNKEY MONKEYS (Saturday and Sunday) These aren't zoo residents but a band formed by Joshua Sitron, composer and musical director for the Nickelodeon show "Dora the Explorer." The members make up stories and do comic bits along with their music, which is funky of course. And their intended audience — those 2 to 8 — can participate in their show, playing in an open-ended run. At 11 a.m. and 2 p.m., Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, funkeymonkeys.com; $20.'THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF UNCLE WIGGILY: WINDBLOWN VISITORS' (Friday through Sunday) In this musical Uncle Wiggily, the elderly rabbit who helped young animals in the stories by Howard R. Garis, becomes protector of a windblown visitor to New York: Merilee, who ends up in Manhattan after her home is devastated by Hurricane Katrina. Written by Laurel Hessing (book and lyrics) and Arthur Abrams (music), the show, which originally played last spring, incorporates masks, puppetry and aerial choreography. (Through March 23.) Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday and Sunday at 3 p.m., Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at 10th Street, East Village, (212) 254-1109; $12; $5 for 12 and under.'THE GIRL WHO LOVED WILD HORSES' (Sunday) Galloping hooves and American Indian drums are likely to be among the sounds evoked by this composition, inspired by Paul Goble's award-winning picture book of the same title about an Indian girl and her mystical bond with horses. Part of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center's Meet the Music! series for ages 6 and older, the concert will feature narration by the series's host and the piece's composer, Bruce Adolphe; singing by members of the Young People's Chorus of New York City; and images from the book projected above the stage. At 1 and 3 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; $15.'HANSEL & GRETEL' (Saturday and Sunday) It's easy to imagine the title characters of this fairy tale as lost in the Black Forest, but in this musical version from Manhattan Children's Theater they're surrounded by Kentucky bluegrass. Kristin and Michael Walter, the show's writers, have set the story in Appalachia, with a score to match, and the brother and sister have become Hank and Gerti. But the witch is still a witch. (Through March 30). At noon and 2 p.m., 52 White Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101; manhattanchildrenstheatre.org; $20; $15 for 2 through 17 and 65+.KIDS FLEADH @ THE CRAIC (Saturday) No, you haven't encountered a bunch of typos; you're just reading Irish. Fleadh, pronounced flah, is the Irish word for festival, and craic is slang for fun. The Craic is an annual Irish event with a children's component, a film fleadh with award-winning shorts with an Irish perspective for ages 5 to 12. Popcorn and goodie bags too. At noon, Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street, East Village; free. Information: (646) 549-1349, thecraicfest.com.'LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD'/'LA CAPERUCITA ROJA' (Saturday) The wolf suffers an identity crisis in this puppet musical version, presented by Teatro SEA, which specializes in Latino theater for children. It seems that Little Red can't be persuaded that the wolf is really a wolf, and soon he begins to doubt himself too (with good reason: what wolf talks and sings?). Presented in an easy-to-understand mix of Spanish and English, the show also plays on March 15. At 3 p.m., Teatro SEA, Los Kabayitos Puppet Theater, 107 Suffolk Street, near Rivington Street, Lower East Side, (212) 529-1545, sea-online.info; $15; $12.50 for 2 to 12; free for under 2.'THE MYTHS AND MAGIC OF ICELAND: A VOYAGE THROUGH ICELANDIC CHILDREN'S LITERATURE' (Saturday) American children know all about fairies, trolls and elves, but what about huldufolk (hidden people)? They are just some of the magical Icelandic characters to be discovered in this installation at Scandinavia House, a combination reading room, performance space and play area, designed by Sarah Edkins. (Through March 29.) This Saturday at 11:30 a.m. Diane Wolkstein will also visit the building for a free storytelling session involving another part of Scandinavia: Denmark. She will offer tales by Hans Christian Andersen. At 58 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, scandinaviahouse.org, (212) 847-9740. The installation is open to the public on Saturdays from noon to 5 p.m. for $5 per child; it is free to members of the American-Scandinavian Foundation Tuesdays through Saturdays.NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL CHILDREN'S FILM FESTIVAL (Saturday and Sunday) There is more to children's cinema than cartoon blockbusters and Harry Potter, and this is one of the best places to find it. The festival continues this weekend with five programs of shorts (including one for ages 3 to 6, one for teenagers and "Heebie Jeebies," made up of the bizarre and unusual); four foreign feature films; and a workshop on the making of the Disney movie "Enchanted." (Hey, commercial flicks can be worthwhile too.) (Through March 16.) Screenings are in Manhattan at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, and the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village. Schedules and tickets: (212) 349-0330, gkids.com; $10 to $15.'PINKALICIOUS, THE MUSICAL' (Friday through Sunday) It's time to think pink again. This show from Vital Children's Theater has been revived, so if you missed it last year, you can now catch it at New World Stages. Elizabeth and Victoria Kann adapted their children's book, in which the pink-obsessed title character finds out that sometimes being in the pink can be too much of a good thing. (John Gregor wrote the score and some of the lyrics.) (Through May 25.) Saturday at 2 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, vitaltheatre.org; $28. 'PIPPI' (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Children's literature had at least one feminist heroine long before the feminist era: Pippi Longstocking, the pint-size, pigtailed dynamo who lived independently and fought off villains with the help of pluck and superhuman strength. Now the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater is offering a musical based on the Pippi stories and celebrating the centennial of their creator, the Swedish author Astrid Lindgren. With a book by Zakiyyah Alexander and a score by Darryl Kojak, the production features almost two dozen new, handmade marionettes. Friday and Tuesday through Thursday at 10:30 a.m. and noon; Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m., 79th Street and the West Drive, Central Park; $6; $5 for 18 and under. Reservations required: (212) 988-9093.PURIM: FANCY MASK WORKSHOP (Sunday) Think of Mardi Gras with a Jewish slant. Purim, the forthcoming Jewish holiday, is a time of great revelry and masquerade, and the Yeshiva University Museum will help children get into the spirit (and the costume) with this workshop. They will use fast-drying modeling material over a polystyrene mold, then apply decorations. And the museum provides a wooden base so that the mask can be a sculpture when the festivities are over. (Also March 16.) From 2 to 4 p.m., Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 294-8330; yumuseum.org. Free with museum admission: $8; $6 for students, 65+ and ages 5 through 16.'RAPUNZEL' (Friday through Sunday) This Rapunzel is reputed to let down her hair in more ways than one. High-spirited and feisty, with dark dreadlocks instead of golden tresses, she is no passive princess but an unusual creation from Kneehigh Theater, a British troupe presenting the New York premiere of Annie Siddons's version of the Rapunzel story. (Through March 23.) Friday at 7 p.m., Saturday at 1 and 7 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., the New Victory Theater, (646) 223-3010, newvictory.org; $12.50, $25 and $35.'REALLY ROSIE' (Saturday and Sunday) Every neighborhood seems to have its diva, and in the Brooklyn streets of Maurice Sendak's childhood, it was Rosie, a little Italian girl. Mr. Sendak wrote several children's books about Rosie, and now she is starring in the latest musical production from Atlantic for Kids. Mr. Sendak wrote the book and lyrics, and Carole King composed the music. Now those credits are enough to make anyone act like a diva. (Through March 30.) At 10:30 a.m., the Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (646) 216-1190, atlantictheater.org; $15; $5 for under 12 and Atlantic Theater Company members.'ROMEO AND JULIET' (Saturday) The love that has been endlessly reinterpreted is reinterpreted again by Classical Theater of Harlem, whose new version revisits some of the gang tensions evoked by "West Side Story." This production is set in contemporary Harlem, with hip-hop movement, R&B and rap supplementing the Shakespeare. A discussion on gang violence follows the show. At 3 p.m., LaGuardia Performing Arts Center, Little Theater, 47th Avenue and Van Dam Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 482-5151, laguardiaperformingarts.org; $12.IVAN ULZ (Sunday) Mr. Ulz is the author of the preschool book "Firetruck!" (Scholastic) and composer and performer of the accompanying CD of the same title. You will be sure to hear this anthem at this Bowery Kids concert, which will also showcase other tunes from Mr. Ulz's long career in folk and children's music. At noon, Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, near Bleecker Street, East Village, (212) 614-0505, bowerypoetry.com; $10.'THE VELVETEEN RABBIT' (Saturday and Sunday) Literally Alive Children's Theater, which dramatizes literary works, offers a musical "Velveteen Rabbit" that manages no easy feat: it is both upbeat and faithful to its source, Margery Williams's poignant 1922 children's classic. Before the show, which has a book and lyrics by Brenda Bell and music by Mark McGee, young audience members can join a workshop to help decorate the stage and make themselves rabbit ears. (Through May 11.) Workshop ($5) at 11 a.m., show at noon, Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, near West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 866-5170, literallyalive.com; $25; $20 for children.  LAUREL GRAEBER POPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music. ★ BLACK LIPS, QUINTRON & MISS PUSSYCAT (Monday and Tuesday) Sounding like a nightmarish variant of the 13th Floor Elevators or the Troggs, the Atlanta group Black Lips plays a grisly version of 1960s garage rock, and its onstage antics have been known to descend into the scatological. Quintron and Miss Pussycat are an alt-rock vaudeville team from New Orleans, pumping jaunty organ riffs over the sounds of a homemade drum machine and, if you're lucky, leading a puppet show. With Golden Triangle. Monday at 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; Tuesday at 8:30 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $15. (Ben Sisario) ★ VINICIO CAPOSSELA (Monday) Calling himself an "enchanter" and sometimes donning a Minotaur mask for dramatic effect, this Italian songwriter sings of skid-row Americana and mythological Italy in an elegantly gritty style that recalls Tom Waits and Paolo Conte. At 11:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Sisario)BRYCE DESSNER AND GLENN KOTCHE (Thursday) It's never been clear whether Mr. Dessner, who plays guitar in the National, and Mr. Kotche, the drummer for Wilco, are alt-rockers moonlighting as post-classical avant-gardists or the other way around. Their rock stuff is higher-profile, but the experimental music they've made on their own and in various ensembles (Mr. Dessner plays in the new-music quartet Clogs) is just as accomplished, if not more. On Thursday they perform the first of two joint concerts at the Kitchen in Chelsea. At 8 p.m., 512 West 19th Street, (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org; $15. (Sisario)FAB FAUX (Thursday) There are Beatles tribute acts, and then there are Beatles tribute acts. This one, featuring the bassist Will Lee (of the "Late Show With David Letterman" band) and the guitarist Jimmy Vivino (from "Late Night With Conan O'Brien"), recreates even the most complex studio work without breaking a sweat. Next week the Fab Faux plays  "Rubber Soul" in full. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)FROG EYES (Wednesday) A side project of the Canadian indie-arty band Wolf Parade, Frog Eyes sets Carey Mercer's frantic, David Bowie-like vocals against even more frantic keyboards and guitars, a soundtrack to life in fast-forward. With Papertrigger, Hospitality and Julianna Barwick. At 7:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10. (Sisario)ROBBIE FULKS (Monday) A sharp-eyed and sharp-tongued outcast of the country scene, the songwriter Robbie Fulks, based in Chicago,  sings with polish and smarts about all the usual doomed romances and nutty loners. But he also has a wicked comedic streak, as evidenced by his song "Fountains of Wayne Hotline," about a phone-in songwriting clinic. At 6:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $12. (Sisario)LEVON HELM (Friday and Saturday) After a hiatus for recovery from throat cancer, Mr. Helm, the former drummer of the Band and a singer of hits like "The Weight," has returned with a raspier but still powerfully expressive voice. At 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 307-7171, beacontheatrenyc.com; $49.50 to $100. (Sisario) ★ THE HIVES, THE DONNAS (Friday) High concept and high volume, the Hives know how to write a killer pop-punk song and also how to dress like Edwardian dandies, a combination that doesn't happen often enough. The Donnas began by self-consciously styling themselves as the female Ramones, and 15 years into this gimmick they have come to resemble their heroes more and more. At 8 p.m., Terminal 5, 610 West 56th Street, Clinton, (212) 260-4700, terminal5nyc.com; sold out. (Sisario)JOSÉ GONZÁLEZ (Tuesday and Wednesday) An Argentine Swede, Mr. González plays haunting, austere confessions with precision acoustic guitar picking and a deadpan hush. He has had a steady rise to indie fame over the last few years, helped by a touring schedule that rivals the Allman Brothers'. With Mia Doi Todd. Tuesday at 8 and 10:30 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com;  Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Brooklyn Masonic Temple, 317 Clermont Avenue, at Lafayette Street, Fort Greene, (866) 468-7619, masonicboom.com; both $25.50. (Sisario)RICHARD JULIAN (Saturday) Not quite cynical but not quite happy-go-lucky either, Mr. Julian writes songs about the frustrations and wonders of New York, like the restless blur of "Brooklyn in the Morning" from his new album, "Sunday Morning in Saturday's Shoes" (Manhattan). At 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15. (Sisario) ★ JUSTICE, CHROMEO (Tuesday) As many fists will pump as hips will swing for Justice, a French D.J. duo whose hard, fast beats join the hedonism of rock with the hedonism of the dance floor. You take the '80s train to Pet Shop Boys and Cameo in the midtempo electronic head-nodders by the Montreal duo Chromeo. With Fancy, and DJ Mehdi and Busy P. At 8 p.m., WaMu Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $35 to $59.50.(Sisario)LIGHTSPEED CHAMPION (Saturday) Indie rock needs more 180-degree head-scratchers. Lightspeed Champion is Devonte Hynes, a British singer last seen in the raucous dance-punk group Test Icicles. For his new project he went to Omaha and recorded sober acoustic country-folk. Makes no sense, and that's why it's interesting. At 7:30 p.m., with Palms, at Union Pool, 484 Union Avenue, at Meeker Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 609-0484, bowerypresents.com;  $10. (Sisario)LUNASA, KARAN CASEY (Thursday) Lunasa is a five-piece traditional band from Ireland that can be feisty or gentle, with neatly detailed arrangements that deploy spirited fiddle and uilleann pipes or the dulcet counterpoint of up to three whistles at once. A former member of the Irish band Solas, Ms. Casey sets her clear voice in arrangements that mix traditional and modern instruments, maintaining the taut, quivering ornamentation of old ballad style and singing tales of love, war and murder with a gentle gravity. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $18.(Jon Pareles)BOB MOULD (Thursday) Ever since the breakup of Hüsker Dü  two decades ago, Bob Mould has been waffling between his eclectic solo experiments — some electronica, some acoustic chamber work — and the corrosive post-punk that Hüsker Dü pioneered. His latest, "District Line" (Anti-), covers both the angry-rock side and the pensive-electronic side, though the angry stuff is still where he really shines. With Halou. At 9 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $22.50. (Sisario)MSTRKRFT (Friday) An offshoot of the Canadian disco-punk group Death From Above 1979, the duo Mstrkrft — say "master craft" — specializes in retro electronic dance-rock that drips with as much kitsch as sweat. With LA Riots, Lazaro Casanova and the Bloody Beetroots. At 10 p.m., Studio B, 259 Banker Street, between Meserole Avenue and Calyer Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 389-1880, clubstudiob.com; $18. (Sisario)PINK MARTINI (Sunday and Tuesday) The Hollywood lounge band gone global, this 12-or-so-piece ensemble from Portland, Ore., follows a retro glamour jet stream from Rio to Havana to Paris. Sunday at 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $35 to $75. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $35 to $58. (Sisario)RA RA RIOT (Friday) Last summer this six-piece from Syracuse, which adds violin and cello to its moody, gently shuffling indie-pop, suffered a tragedy when its 23-year-old drummer, John Pike, was found dead. The band has pledged to continue, and lest you think its most recent single, "Dying Is Fine," is a sign of morbidity, check the video — it's a semi-animated parable of the cycle of life, with the band members appearing as happy caterpillars and pretty leaves. With Bear Hands and Sam Rosen. At 8:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out.(Sisario)DIZZEE RASCAL (Tuesday) Among the first stars of the British grime scene — a hyperactive, proudly provincial rap-electronica hybrid — Dizzee Rascal and his quick-fire, Cockney gangsta style have survived,  even as that genre has faded. But is it good or bad that he's playing in a club as small as Southpaw, in Brooklyn? With Game Rebellion and Hollywood Holt. At 8 p.m., 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $20. (Sisario)RYAN SHAW (Wednesday) One of the better of the current wave of vintage-soul revivalists (Sharon Jones, Marc Broussard, Amy Winehouse), this 27-year-old Georgian proves his mettle with a smoking version of Wilson Pickett's "I Found a Love." He plays at the Highline Ballroom on a day off from the Valen Halen tour, where he is the opening act. At 8 p.m.,  431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $12. (Sisario) ★ SHOUT OUT LOUDS (Tuesday) This Swedish group borrows liberally (and transparently) from the Cure, Bright Eyes and 1960s folk-pop to create lush, melancholy songs with chills of anxiety. At 9:30 and 11:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15. (Sisario)SIA (Saturday) Sia Furler lent a perfectly chilled-out voice to songs by the loungetronica band Zero 7, and while on her own she has shown a wider range — her most common comparisons are Sheryl Crow and Alicia Keys — she's most in her element when she's mellow, jazzy and soft. With Har Mar Superstar. At 6 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 260-4700, bowerypresents.com; sold out.(Sisario)BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN AND THE E STREET BAND (Monday) Mr. Springsteen's latest, "Magic" (Columbia), is a time warp back to the mid-1980s heyday of his time with the E Street Band, with songs of war and disillusionment ("Gypsy Biker") camouflaged in expansive, upbeat stadium rockers. At 7:30 p.m., Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631) 888-9000, nassaucoliseum.com; sold out.(Sisario)THE STILLS (Friday and Saturday) On its debut album five years ago, this Montreal band took the sulking guitar minimalism of Interpol and the Strokes and sublimated it into a shimmering, majestic gloom that recalled the glories of U2. Its second album, "Without Feathers," perplexingly slowed things down to a bored crawl, but a third is due soon. With Wild Light. Friday at 9:30 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; sold out. Saturday at 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $16 in advance, $18 at the door.(Sisario)VAN HALEN (Thursday) Proving once and for all that when it comes to rock mega-reunions, all the public squabbling, rehab interruptions and phony camaraderie don't mean a thing, as long as the singer kicks high, the guitarist pulls off those Paganini-in-spandex riffs, and the crowds roar. With Ryan Shaw. At 7:30 p.m., Izod Center (formerly the Continental Airlines Arena), East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, meadowlands.com; $49.50 to $159.50. (Sisario)The urge to binge mindlessly, though it can strike at any time, seems to stir in the collective unconscious during the last weeks of winter. Maybe it's the television images from places like Fort Lauderdale and Cabo San Lucas, of communications majors' face planting outside bars or on beaches.Or perhaps it's a simple a case of seasonal affective disorder in reverse. Not SAD at all, but anticipation of warmth and eagerness for a little disorder.Either way, researchers have had a hard time understanding binge behavior. Until recently, their definition of binge drinking — five drinks or more in  24 hours — was so loose that it invited debate and ridicule from some scholars. And investigators who ventured into the field, into the spray of warm backwash and press of wet T-shirts, often returned with findings like this one from a 2006 study: "Spring break trips are a risk factor for escalated alcohol use."Or this, from a 1998 analysis: "The men's reported levels of alcohol consumption, binge drinking and intoxication were significantly higher than the women's."In fact, the dynamics of bingeing may have more to do with personal and cultural expectations than with the number of upside-down margaritas consumed. In their classic 1969 book, "Drunken Comportment," recently out in paperback, the social scientists Craig MacAndrew and Robert B. Edgerton wrote that the disconnect between the conventional wisdom on drunken behavior and the available evidence "is even now so scandalous as to exceed the limits of reasonable toleration."They  detailed the vast differences in the way people from diverse cultures behave after excessive alcohol. In contrast to nearby tribes, for example, the Yuruna Indians in the Xingu region of Brazil would  become exceptionally reserved when rendered sideways by large helpings of moonshine. The Camba of eastern Bolivia would drink excessively twice a month. Sitting in a circle, they would toast one another, more lavishly with each pop.In a Japanese island village, Takashima, people knew a drinking occasion had gone completely off the dials if villagers began to sing or, wilder still, to dance. Aggression, sexual or otherwise, was unheard of during these sessions.Western cultures are more likely to excuse binge drinking as a needed mental vacation. "An awful lot of cultures have institutionalized bingeing as a kind of time out like Mardi Gras or New Year's Eve, a culturally recognized period where a certain amount of acting out is acceptable," said Dwight Heath, emeritus professor of anthropology at Brown.Not to say that would-be bingers, when ordering that first tray of Irish car bombs for the table, think about discharging a cultural tradition. They have their own reasons. And those, too, shape subsequent drunken behavior.In a series of studies in the 1970s and '80s, psychologists at the University of Washington put more than 300 students into a study room outfitted like a bar with mirrors, music and a stretch of polished pine. The researchers served alcoholic drinks, most often icy vodka tonics, to some of the students and nonalcoholic ones, usually icy tonic water, to others. The drinks looked and tasted the same, and the students typically drank five in an hour or two.The studies found that people who thought they were drinking alcohol behaved exactly as aggressively, or as affectionately, or as merrily as they expected to when drunk. "No significant difference between those who got alcohol and those who didn't," Alan Marlatt, the senior author, said. "Their behavior was totally determined by their expectations of how they would behave."In a repeat of the session performed for a coming documentary, one participant insisted that she could not have been drinking because alcohol always made her flush."We told her that, yes, in fact she was drinking it," Dr. Marlatt said. "She immediately flushed."Somewhere between personal preferences and social custom, moreover, the peer group asserts itself. In a recent study, public health researchers in New Zealand conducted extensive interviews with teenage girls in one of two cliques at a high school. Both groups associated drinking with uninhibited behavior — and that is what they exhibited. But one group considered being uninhibited to include making out, and the other considered it to include far more.In their discussion, Dr. MacAndrew and Dr. Edgerton acknowledged that Western societies, and certainly the United States, send multiple signals on bingeing. At times, the signals cross, as when movies show spring-break binging as sunburned, sexy fun, while  health pronouncements make it look like an orgy of near-criminal behavior.At other times, cultural expectations and personal preferences reinforce each other. The hope that a wild session might "reveal new things about myself" or "allow me to act completely out of character" is widely echoed in literature, pop culture and drinking lore. If the research is a guide, those hopes should be self-fulfilling at some level.Unless, that is, the binge goes beyond any reasonable definition of excess. Then the amount of tequila consumed matters very much — and poison is poison in any culture.Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. Previews and Openings'THE AMERICAN DREAM/THE SANDBOX' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on March 25. Edward Albee directs two of his 50-year-old one-acts. Judith Ivey and Myra Carter star (1:10). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. 'THE CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR' In previews; opens on March 18. John Cullum and D B Woodside star in a new drama about the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s decision to oppose the Vietnam War (2:00). Clurman Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.'CONVERSATIONS IN TUSCULUM' In previews; opens on Tuesday. Richard Nelson's history play looks at those entangled in the political orbit of Julius Caesar. Brian Dennehy, Maria Tucci, David Strathairn and Aidan Quinn star (2:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. 'DRUNK ENOUGH TO SAY I LOVE YOU?' In previews; opens on March 16. In Caryl Churchill's allegorical romance, two male lovers chat, flirt and bicker about American foreign policy (45 minutes). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555.'THE DRUNKEN CITY' Previews start on Thursday. Opens on March 26. Three brides-to-be on a pub crawl start to question what exactly they are getting into in Adam Bock's new play (1:20). Playwrights Horizons' Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.'THE FIFTH COLUMN' In previews; opens on March 27.  The Mint Theater unearths Hemingway's drama about a counterespionage agent during the Spanish Civil War. Jonathan Bank directs (2:45). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231.'THE FOUR OF US' In previews; opens on March 25. Jealousy is the theme of Itamar Moses's new drama about two young writer friends, one of whom makes it big. Manhattan Theater Club at City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.'GYPSY' In previews; opens on March 27. The beloved Patti LuPone revives her Encores! turn as Mama Rose (2:30). St. James, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. 'IN THE HEIGHTS' In previews; opens on Sunday. Could this small musical about three days in Washington Heights, which transfers to Broadway after a successful Off Broadway run, become the next "Rent"? (2:20). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4100.'THE SEAGULL' In previews; opens on Thursday. Alan Cumming and Dianne Wiest star in a new revival of Chekhov's play (2:40). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.'SOUTH PACIFIC' In previews; opens on April 3. Lincoln Center presents the first Broadway revival of Rodgers and Hammerstein's classic 1949 musical. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, (212) 239-6200.Broadway★ 'ALFRED HITCHCOCK'S THE 39 STEPS' An absurdly enjoyable, gleefully theatrical riff on the 1935 Hitchcock movie, directed by Maria Aitken and featuring a cast of four that feels like a cast of thousands. This fast, frothy exercise in legerdemain is throwaway theater at its finest (1:45). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, 212 719-1300. (Ben Brantley)★ 'AUGUST: OSAGE COUNTY'  Tracy Letts's turbocharged tragicomedy about an Oklahoma clan in a state of near-apocalyptic meltdown is the most exciting new American play Broadway has seen in years. Fiercely funny and bitingly sad, it somehow finds fresh sources of insight in that classic staple of the stage, the disintegrating American family. And the cast, from the Steppenwolf Theater Company, is beyond sublime (3:20). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)★ 'COME BACK, LITTLE SHEBA' Michael Pressman's gentle, revitalizing production of William Inge's kitchen-sink drama from 1950 features a heart-stopping performance from S. Epatha Merkerson as the lonely wife of an alcoholic; it allows the kind of intimate access traditionally afforded by cinematic close-ups. With Kevin Anderson and Zoe Kazan, both first-rate. (2:10). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'DISNEY'S  THE LITTLE MERMAID' The motto for this charm-free musical blunderbuss, based on the charming 1989 Disney movie, might be "You can't go broke overestimating the taste of preschoolers." Francesca Zambello directs an overwhelmed cast (2:20). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)'GREASE'  A limp revival of a musical set in a high school that feels like a musical put on by a high school. Kathleen Marshall directs and choreographs a charisma-free ensemble, whose leads (Max Crumm and Laura Osnes) were cast via reality television (2:15).  Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100.  (Brantley)★ 'THE HOMECOMING'  A superlative revival of Harold Pinter's masterpiece of family warfare, directed by Daniel Sullivan, with a cast led by Ian McShane and, in benchmark performances, Eve Best and Raúl Esparza. Four decades after its Broadway debut titillated and outraged American theatergoers, this extraordinary drama continues to unsettle (2:10). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'LEGALLY BLONDE' This nonstop sugar rush of a musical about a powder puff who finds her inner power broker, based on the 2001 film, approximates the experience of eating a jumbo bag of Gummi Bears in one sitting. Flossing between songs is recommended (2:20). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'THE NEW MEL BROOKS MUSICAL YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN' This tiring adaptation of Mr. Brooks's 1974 movie, directed by Susan Stroman and starring an amiable but overwhelmed Roger Bart, never seems to stop screeching at you. This means that: a) it soon wears out its voice, and b) it leaves you with a monster-size headache (2:45). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'NOVEMBER' David Mamet's glib, jaunty comedy about a corrupt, unpopular president seeking re-election suggests a "Saturday Night Live" sketch retro-styled as a Sid Caesar comedy sketch. Joe Mantello, in his Neil Simon mode, directs a cast led by Nathan Lane (as the quipping president) and Laurie Metcalf (as his doormat speechwriter) (1:35). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)★ 'PASSING STRANGE' The rock 'n' roll autobiography of Stew, a singer-songwriter who grew up in bourgeois black Los Angeles and trekked to Europe to find himself as an artist. The portrait of an artist in search of himself is an old story; Stew's unique perspective, exuberant music and witty lyrics — and the show's uniformly delightful cast — give it a vivid new sheen (2:10). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)★ 'THE SEAFARER' A dark and enthralling Yuletide fable, written and directed by the wonderful Irish playwright Conor McPherson, set in a squalid house in Dublin on Christmas Eve. The production features one of the finest ensembles to grace a Broadway stage in years — and possibly the finest representation of individual states of drunkenness ever (2:30). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)★ 'SUNDAY IN THE PARK WITH GEORGE' A glorious revival of Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine's 1984 musical about art according to Seurat. Making enchanting use of 21st-century technology to convey a 19th-century Pointillist's point of view, this production also shimmers with a new humanity and clarity. Daniel Buntrock directs a revelatory cast, led by Daniel Evans and Jenna Russell. (2:15). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley) ★ 'XANADU' An improbably entertaining spoof of the majestically awful movie from 1980 about a Greek muse (Olivia Newton-John, roller-skating into oblivion) who inspires a young artist in Venice Beach, Calif., to chase his disco dream. Kerry Butler mimics Ms. Newton-John's Aussie accent and sports her signature skates-and-leg-warmers look, but also puts her own affectionate stamp on a seriously silly role.  The impish playwright Douglas Carter Beane, who wrote the adaptation, also supplies great material for the domineering comic actresses Jackie Hoffman and Mary Testa.  Blissfully idiotic, practically sublime (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)Off Broadway★ 'ADDING MACHINE' A bleak but brilliant musical adaptation of Elmer Rice's 1923 play about an all-American loser who kills the boss when he finds he's being replaced by the contraption of the title. Expertly designed and directed, with unforgettably vivid performances in the three lead roles and an inspired score by Joshua Schmidt and Jason Loewith (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. ( Isherwood) ★ 'BETRAYED' George Packer's play, adapted from his piece for The New Yorker, is a chilling study of the plight of three Iraqis working for the American government in Iraq. Forceful, unsettling and beautifully acted  (1:45). Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 352-3101. (Isherwood)★ 'CRIMES OF THE HEART' The film actress Kathleen Turner makes a confident stage directing debut with this emotionally probing revival of Beth Henley's wacked-out 1979 comedy about three Southern sisters having a very bad day. Jennifer Dundas, Sarah Paulson and Lily Rabe shine in different hues as the hard-luck Magrath women  (2:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Isherwood)★ 'DEAD MAN'S CELL PHONE' Mary-Louise Parker stars as a mousy young woman who embarks on a wild odyssey into the lives of others when she picks up the gadget of the title in a cafe one day. Sarah Ruhl, among the freshest and most distinctive playwrights to emerge in recent years, mixes whimsy and feeling in unusual proportions, with beguiling results (2:10). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: RUDE AWAKENING' The 25th-anniversary version of Gerard Alessandrini's invaluable index to current American musicals has priceless moments (especially its parody of the hot-and-bothered antics of "Spring Awakening"). But it's also a sobering reminder that even an inspired satirist can be defeated by emaciated targets (1:30).  47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'FUERZABRUTA' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion. Thumping techno music, smoke and a standing throng surround you as you watch a curious collection of semi-spectacular technical feats (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'GRAY AREA' The first act of this comedy by John Ahlin couldn't be funnier, but the second is a disorganized disappointment. The premise is set up perfectly: a brash radio commentator gratuitously insults Civil War re-enactors and soon finds himself kidnapped by three of them, held captive in a woods in the South. They want to relieve him of his stereotypes, and the clash of worlds is hilarious, but the plot degenerates into a dumb contest of rhetoric and trivia (2:40).  Barrow Group Theater, 312 West 36th Street, third floor, (212) 760-2615. (Neil Genzlinger) 'JAMAICA, FAREWELL'  Debra Ehrhardt's one-woman show drags at the start, but becomes increasingly funny as she tells a loopy story of smuggling a million dollars into Miami to accomplish her dream of coming to America  (1:35). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555. (Caryn James)'JUMP' Video-game theater from Korea that mixes martial arts and broad comedy with lowbrow results (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Jason Zinoman)'LIBERTY CITY' This coming-of-age solo work, which never entirely comes into focus, imagines a romantic portrait of '60s radicalism in Liberty City, Miami (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Zinoman)★ 'LIFE IN A MARITAL INSTITUTION (20 YEARS OF MONOGAMY IN ONE TERRIFYING HOUR)' James Braly's engaging, well-constructed monologue starts out at the bedside of his dying sister, but there's nothing maudlin in it. He uses her deathbed marriage as a window to talk about his own rather loopy union with a woman named Susan: a series of quirky stories covering fidelity, natural childbirth, control issues and therapy that are full of laughs and insight (1:30).  59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Genzlinger)'LOWER NINTH'  The three men on a roof above the floodwaters of Hurricane Katrina are played by television actors worth catching: James McDaniel from "NYPD Blue," Gaius Charles from "Friday Night Lights" and Gbenga Akinnagbe from "The Wire." But they can't make up for the slapdash structure and undigested themes of Beau Willimon's disappointing play about brotherhood and redemption (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101. (James)★  'MACBETH' Patrick Stewart brings fearsome insight to the title role in Rupert Goold's good and nasty production of Shakespeare's tragedy. Though the show has enough flash, blood and mutilation to satisfy Wes Craven fans, it's Mr. Stewart's brilliance that makes it a must-see. With Kate Fleetwood (excellent and original) as his stained trophy wife  (2:45). Brooklyn Academy of Music, Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100. (Brantley)'MY FIRST TIME'  Ken Davenport's venture into Web-theater synergy mines a site called MyFirstTime.com to cull stories of inaugural encounters with sex. Four actors deliver the anecdotes in what amounts to little more than a crassly commercial effort to replicate the success of "The Vagina Monologues" (1:30).New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Ginia Bellafante) 'NEXT TO NORMAL' A show destined to produce bipolar reactions, as befits a musical about manic depression. One minute you're rolling your eyes; the next, you're wiping them. But Michael Greif's production of Tom Kitt and Brian Yorkey's tale of a haunted housewife, starring the excellent Alice Ripley and Brian d'Arcy James, has an inescapable emotional momentum (2:20). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422. (Brantley) 'PARADISE PARK' The last and weightiest play in the Signature Theater Company's season of Charles Mee is set in an old-fashioned amusement park, where unhappy characters find refuge from the world. Although this hit-or-miss work has Mr. Mee's characteristic weaknesses, it also has real emotion beneath its appealing absurdist surface (1:50). Signature Theater Company at the Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529. (James)'(RUS)H'  A car crash leads one man to rethink his life in this slick and high-tech tale of sexual obsession (1:20). 3LD Arts & Technology Center, 80 Greenwich Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101. (Zinoman)★ 'THE SLUG BEARERS OF KAYROL ISLAND (OR THE FRIENDS OF DR. RUSHOWER)' Flat feels surprisingly full in this droll and hypnotizing musical. A deadpan fable of colliding cultures, featuring a libretto and animated drawings by the urban-lore cartoonist Ben Katchor, with music by Mark Mulcahy, "Slug Bearers" blurs the line between two and three dimensions (2:00). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303. (Brantley)   ★ 'TWO THOUSAND YEARS' The latest collaboration between Mike Leigh and Scott Elliott, the New Group's artistic director, may not be the equal of their best. But Mr. Leigh's comedy about a family of middle-class London Jews, while unwieldy, is a consistently enjoyable story of family angst. Cindy Katz is a standout as the aggrieved but entitled estranged sister, as is Yuval Boim in a small role as the sweet Israeli boyfriend of the daughter of the family, ably played by the film actress Natasha Lyonne (2:20). Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)'U.S. DRAG' Gina Gionfriddo mocks our obsession with serial killers in this sly, shaky satire of a sensational celebrity culture where even murder can be turned into entertainment  (1:20). Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman)Off Off Broadway 'CAT'S CRADLE' Given our latest war, it's unsurprising that Kurt Vonnegut, with his satirical shots at religion and the military-industrial complex, is in vogue at the theater, with an Off Broadway "Slaughter-House Five" in January, and now Edward Einhorn's musical take on "Cradle," an apocalyptic fable about a writer pursuing the progeny of a military scientist in a Caribbean banana republic. As in Broadway's 2006 "Sweeney Todd," most of the many actors play instruments; they also sing a fitfully amusing calypso score. The youthful energy is impressive, but Mr. Einhorn's audacity proves unwieldy, and the show wobbles in its sprawl (1:20).  Walkerspace, 46 Walker Street, between Church Street and Broadway, TriBeCa, (212) 353-3101. (Andy Webster)★ 'DEEP TRANCE BEHAVIOR IN POTATOLAND'  This ravishing mind trip from Richard Foreman, who is celebrating the 40th anniversary of his Ontological-Hysteric Theater, distills what was noblest in the impulse that four decades ago propelled a generation to turn on, tune in and drop out. An amazing journey, indeed (1:10). Ontological Theater, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 420-1916. (Brantley) 'OPEN HOUSE' A novelty from the Foundry Theater about urban life and the surreal state of real estate in New York. Aaron Landsman's slight but amusing play is about the pleasures, pains and dislocations of city living, as experienced by a young hipster couple. It is performed, along with a mock real-estate sales pitch, on couches in private apartments in all five boroughs. (1:10).  At various sites; (866) 811-4111. (Isherwood)★ 'VITA AND VIRGINIA' In this graceful, small-scale revival of Eileen Atkins's play, based on the letters of Virginia Woolf and Vita Sackville-West, Kathleen Chalfant is the aloof literary genius Virginia, and Patricia Elliott the vibrant but middle-brow Vita. Tracing a briefly physical and emotionally enduring friendship through two decades, the actors are so responsive to each other's words that they capture the ethereal, shimmering connection between the two writers  (2:00). The Zipper Factory Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 352-3101. (James)Long-Running Shows'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'A CHORUS LINE' What they did for love, redux (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'CURTAINS' Murder by show tune (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'JERSEY BOYS'  The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'MARY POPPINS' P. L. Travers meets Dr. Phil (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley) 'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45).  Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'SPRING AWAKENING' An explosively good new musical about teenage angst in 19th-century Germany, set to melodious, post-punk pop music by Duncan Sheik (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)Last Chance'GRACE' Lynn Redgrave stars as a professor of natural science who blows a gasket when her son decides to become an Anglican priest. Ms. Redgrave is commanding, the play disappointingly schematic  (1:30). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200; closes on Saturday. (Isherwood)'IS HE DEAD?'  What might have been a wheeze turns out to be a giggle. Mark Twain's previously unproduced farce from 1898, about a French painter who feigns his death, is brought to life by a cast (led by Norbert Leo Butz) and a director (Michael Blakemore) who make a tasty meal out of a profiterole (2:00). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Brantley)'LUSTRE: A MIDWINTER TRANS-FEST' The inimitable Justin Bond is more than worth the price of admission, even if the gang of performers he has assembled for this evening of song and vamping doesn't always measure up to his smart, glamorous standard (1:20).  Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101; closes on Sunday. (Claudia La Rocco)'MARK TWAIN'S BLUES' A musical that rewrites several scenes from Mark Twain's "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" with an eye to making them more politically correct. The result is more of a staged 19th-century American lit lecture than a play (2:10).  Altered Stages, 212 West 29th Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444; closes on Saturday.(Wilborn Hampton) 'MAUDIE AND JANE' At 81, Judith Malina is still trying to shake up the world. She is impressive as the defiant Maudie in this clumsy two-character play based on Doris Lessing's "Diaries of Jane Somers," about how society treats aging women (1:20). Living Theater, 21 Clinton Street, just below Houston Street, Lower East Side, (212) 792-8050; closes on Sunday. (James)'OROONOKO' An adaptation of the 1688 novella by Aphra Behn about an African prince enslaved in South America. Written by the Nigerian author Biyi Bandele, it is an exotic yarn told in colorful strokes, yet strangely bland (2:10).  The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010; closes on Sunday. (Isherwood)'UNCONDITIONAL' Sex, violence and loneliness are the recurring themes of Brett C. Leonard's play about strangers in the New York night. Mark Wing-Davey's production for the LAByrinth Theater includes several sharp performances, but the interracial relationships in the play are explored in ways that are more sensational than sensible (2:15). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555; closes on Sunday. (Isherwood)
