AT midnight on a Monday in late July, the day was far from over for Alicia Keys. That morning the Jamaican bassist and producer Robbie Shakespeare, from the duo Sly and Robbie, had flown in from Miami for a session at the Oven: a house on Long Island that Ms. Keys and her producing partner, Kerry (Krucial) Brothers, have converted into a complex of recording and mixing studios. She spent the afternoon rehearsing with her band in Weehawken, N.J., then headed back to the Oven for a late-night mixing session."I love my spot," she said proudly as she offered a visitor a tour, wearing wraparound sunglasses and a "Born to Be Wild" T-shirt. "It looks like Grandma's house." From the outside it did. But beyond its parlor the Oven was a warren of clean, well-equipped studios on three floors. Photos of Nina Simone, Janis Joplin, Bob Marley and other old-school figures presided from the walls.It's where she made her next album, "As I Am" (J Records), working at her own pace. Due for release on Nov. 13, "As I Am" will be her first studio album since she released "The Diary of Alicia Keys" in 2003, and Ms. Keys has been describing it as "rebellious" at every opportunity. "I just was really adamant about doing things that were not expected," she said. While some of its songs reaffirm her connection to 1960s and '70s soul, others lean closer to rock — from the Beatles to U2 — than she has before.The album was about 10 days from being finished, and well into the wee hours people were busy with last-minute mixing and mastering. Manny Marroquin, who was mixing the album's first single, "No One," told Ms. Keys he had just gotten a no-pressure-but-pressure call from her A&R contact at J Records. "He was, like, 'Do your thing,' " Mr. Marroquin reported, imitating the tone of the record-company man. " 'I've just got to turn the song in by Wednesday, and I'm not going to get in the way, but —— ' "Ms. Keys interrupted him. "Back up," she said. "I don't like to hear all that. It'll be in when it's in. It's there when it's right, and that's when it's there."Getting it right is essential both for Ms. Keys as a musician and for a recording business with few young stars that inspire loyalty. In the four years between Ms. Keys's studio albums, CD sales have stayed in a tailspin and albums have been dismantled in favor of singles and ring tones. Careers have been forged by "American Idol," which boosts singers rather than songwriters, entertainers more than musicians — nearly the opposite of a self-determined performer like Ms. Keys.Although she is only 26, in many ways Ms. Keys comes across as a proud throwback: a soul singer in the era of abbreviated R&B hooks. She writes and produces her own songs, with various collaborators including, on this album, the rock and pop producer Linda Perry and the songwriter from Floetry, Marsha Ambrosius. She is an accomplished keyboardist and a singer who needs no electronic assistance."She doesn't compromise,"  said Clive Davis, the chairman of BMG North America (the parent of J Records), who has nurtured her career since he signed her as a teenager and his company released her 2001 debut, the multimillion-selling "Songs in A Minor." "I would never think of remotely asking her to compromise."Although he has appeared on "American Idol" as a musical coach, "I don't give her any advice," he said. "And she doesn't rest on any laurels."Her songs often recall gospel-rooted, idealistic vintage soul, updated with deeper bass and programmed drumbeats. "I do feel like I was born in the wrong era sometimes," Ms. Keys said. "Maybe I just passed away early and ended up being reborn in this one. There is obviously some kind of true cosmic connection with that music of the '60s and the '70s."She continued: "I love how social people were, how politically aware they were. Mobilizing massive amounts of people for one singular vision and making tremendous strides: How does that happen? I'm very fascinated by that."As urban radio stations thump with proudly synthetic R&B and hip-hop, the organic soul and rock sound of Ms. Keys's new songs are almost defiant. But she may have enough good will among fans and gatekeepers to thrive as a nonconformist."The climate now is not unlike the one when she first entered," said Stephen Hill, executive vice president of music entertainment at Black Entertainment Television. "There was nothing like her when she came out. And when she did 'If I Ain't Got You,' that also sounded like nothing else on the radio, but it was soulful."For Ms. Keys four years passed quickly. She toured repeatedly, made an MTV "Unplugged" album and traveled in Africa to support the AIDS-response organization Keep a Child Alive. She did some movie acting, playing a hitwoman in "Smokin' Aces" and Scarlett Johansson's  friend in "The Nanny Diaries." She and Mr. Brothers started a television production company called Big Pita, Little Pita that's working on a series about a biracial child growing up in New York City, as Ms. Keys did.And for a while Ms. Keys set aside career to tend to an older relative she declines to name, who was dying. "Somebody extremely close to me got very ill," she said, "and I was really the only one that was able to help care for them. This person was strong and my rock, and then, totally, not even able to walk without assistance. I had no choice but to stop."Until then she had been working her career since she was a teenager. "Celebrity is like a drug," she said. "In its purest form you get well known for something that you do, that you do well. That's a genuine emotion, and then you love what you do, and you want to share it with the world, and then people say: 'Well, you've got to do this this this this this. In three days you're doing seven countries, go.' And you go, 'O.K., well I've  got to go, go go go go.' "She added, "Instead of you living your life, your life is living you."To visit her relative Ms. Keys would cut recording sessions short; she also flew home between tour dates. The experience, she said, of "dealing with mortality every day for a year" affected the songs she was writing. One, called "Tell You Something," is a U2-flavored guitar anthem that vows, "Won't wait till it's too late."The album is titled "As I Am," Ms. Keys said, because she has grown far more straightforward in recent years. "I was becoming a very hidden person," she said. "I would just always try to keep everything even keeled and cool and just smooth everything over. That mask was getting very scary. And I didn't like it."Growing up in Clinton, known as Hell's Kitchen during the seedy years of Times Square, where she was raised by her mother after her parents separated, taught Ms. Keys to be defensive. "I've always been pretty guarded," she said. "I remember I would have guys drop me off, like, two blocks before my house. I didn't want them to know where I lived. Even on the phone I never wanted people getting too close to me, I never wanted people knowing too much about me. I always felt like if people knew about me, then they could use it against me."Now "I'm done with that," she said. "And I'm done with being a person that doesn't understand themselves because it's being detrimental to my health and my spirit and my mind. Everybody's in trouble now because I will tell it like it is."Still, Ms. Keys has never offered private details in her songs. Her hits, like "A Woman's Worth" and "If I Ain't Got You," have revolved around advice and generalities. That doesn't change in new songs like "The Thing About Love" or "Like You'll Never See Me Again."But her voice can make truisms sound like confessions. One new song, "Superwoman," draws on gospel and the Beatles, moving from uncertainty to determination. It's a reminder, she said, to herself. "Even when I'm out, and I'm just a mess, and I'm not perfect, and everything's not great, and I'm struggling to figure out what is what," she said, "I'm still a superwoman."By coincidence this fall also promises new albums from Ms. Keys's fellow neo-soul songwriters — Jill Scott, Angie Stone and Erykah Badu — as well as recharged soul singers like Bettye LaVette and Chaka Khan. Singing from the perspective of assertive, self-guided women, they defy the latest wave of pop and hip-hop sexism."Every guy actually thinks they can have any woman," Ms. Keys said, shaking her head. " 'Oh, that's just a woman. Oh, a woman is for my disposal. I use them as an ornament to hang on my arm. I use her as a piece of furniture to stay in my house and let her sit in my car.' It's not good.""I mean, not to say there aren't brilliant, brave, beautiful women who aren't all like that," she added, "but I just don't know when we started being cool with being the afterthought or being the accessory. There's nothing wrong with being sensual, and there's nothing wrong with being sexy, but there's a misunderstanding of what sexy is. Sensuality is the mystery of what it could be."While fans have come to expect pro-woman songs from Ms. Keys, she has also decided to take up political matters, though much more subtly. One song on the new album is "Go Ahead," which has a  hip-hop beat and lyrics that might be about a deceitful lover. It's more than that, Ms. Keys explained. "Lately I've been into taking social or political issues or problems or general ideas and making them people," she said, "so that it comes off as if I'm speaking about a relationship, but I'm really speaking about a world issue."She parsed the song: "Who needs to go ahead and get out of here? Who knew all along that they did the wrong thing? And who needs to get out of here as quickly as possible?" She smiled. "That should tell you your answer."Although "As I Am" won't be released until November, Ms. Keys was promoting it over the summer, jetting to London, Paris and Tokyo to preview songs for music-business powers. Once the album was finished, there would be video treatments to read and touring arrangements to decide. Ms. Keys was ready to plunge into the music business again, but she wanted to keep her priorities old-fashioned."I don't know how to be a factory," she said. "I don't know how to churn out records every second. All I know how to do is what moves me, what really moves me to write, what moves me to sing."Bach never heard the saxophone, which was invented almost a century  after his death, but as he didn't specify most of the instrumental combinations to be used in his "Musical Offering," the work is fair game for unusual pairings. The saxophonist Chris Mannigan and the violist Stephanie Griffin performed excerpts from the work on Thursday in the intimate (and stiflingly hot) Gallerie Icosahedron in TriBeCa.Bach's "Canon a 2:  Quaerendo Invenietis" from the "Musical Offering" and the "Canon Alla Decima in Contrapunto Alla Terza" from "The Art of Fugue" were sandwiched between homages to Bach by the Malaysian composer Kee Yong Chong and the Indonesian composer Tony Prabowo.The concert, called "A Musical Offering from Southeast Asia," was produced by the VIM: TriBeCa concert series — a recent addition to this city's thriving contemporary-music scene — and the Argento New Music Project.Mr. Chong was inspired by the theme from "The Art of Fugue" while writing his thorny, dissonant "Thousand Ripples of a Lonely Bell" for solo viola. Mr. Prabowo's "Music for Multiple Violas 2004 B-A-C-H" for solo viola and tape, based on the musical notes spelling Bach's name in German notation, is a discordant, modernist tapestry layering repeated phrases, startling timbres and improvisatory elements. For someone listening with eyes closed, it seemed as if a swarm of angry violists had been unleashed in the room.The program opened with a canon from Bach's "Musical Offering" and flowed without pause into Mr. Prabowo's "Ke Erse" for viola and alto saxophone, a wail of sax over rapid viola figures based on an  earlier  work for viola and voice.After performing "Ke Erse," the two musicians began distributing free CDs to the audience,  a thoughtful gesture that Ms. Griffin said was "in the spirit of this musical offering." It would have been preferable to wait until the end of the program, however, as the interruption disrupted the flow of the concert.The program also included Mr. Chong's "Metamorphosis IV" for two musicians and CD (derived from an earlier work for flute solo).  Mr. Mannigan and Ms. Griffin played over a recorded montage, which sounded like a storm brewing over mournful cries.Mr. Chong's "Lost Psalm of the Abyss," a Sept. 11 tribute that Mr. Mannigan adapted for solo alto saxophone from the flute original, featured soulful, jazzy riffs and incorporated breathy vocalizing and whispered fragments from the 23rd Psalm.In the old days of the Metropolitan Opera's Saturday afternoon radio broadcasts, a popular feature on the "Texaco Opera Quiz," as the intermission show used to be called, involved playing recordings of several artists singing the same well-known aria and asking the panelists to identify the singers. It was surprising how often even opera experts would confuse one great artist with another.But no one ever mistook the voice of Luciano Pavarotti. There was the warm, enveloping sound: a classic Italian tenor voice, yes, but touched with a bit of husky baritonal darkness, which made Mr. Pavarotti's flights into his gleaming upper range seem all the more miraculous.And it wasn't just the sound that was so recognizable. In Mr. Pavarotti's artistry, language and voice were one. He had an idiomatic way of binding the rounded vowels and sputtering consonants of his native Italian to the tones and colorings of his voice. This practice is central to the Italian vocal heritage, and Mr. Pavarotti was one of its exemplars.For intelligence, discipline, breadth of repertory, musicianship, interpretive depth and virile vocalism, Mr. Pavarotti was outclassed by his Three Tenors sidekick and chief rival, Plácido Domingo. But for sheer Italianate tenorial beauty, Mr. Pavarotti was hard to top. That was certainly the position of his longtime manager, Herbert Breslin, who combined his own promotional savvy with his chief client's vocal greatness to produce the moneymaking phenomenon that was Mr. Pavarotti's career. Call it Pavarotti Inc."Nobody in the tenor world has Luciano's sound, that Italian sound," Mr. Breslin told Manuela Hoelterhoff for her wonderful 1998 book "Cinderella & Company."  "Domingo," he added, "would have to go pray in 17 churches in Guadalajara to find that sound."However partisan that zinger may have been, there was some truth to it. To hear Mr. Pavarotti at his best in a role like Riccardo in Verdi's "Ballo in Maschera" — spinning lyrical phrases with bel canto elegance, then stunning you with visceral vocal outbursts — was to hear Italian operatic artistry at its finest.In a career quirk, a French role became the vehicle of Mr. Pavarotti's breakthrough to the big time in the early 1970s: Tonio in Donizetti's "Fille du Régiment," written for the Opéra-Comique in Paris. Mr. Pavarotti's French may have sounded like French-tinged Italian, but it didn't matter. The opera has a showpiece aria in which, over a breezy oom-pah-pah accompaniment, Tonio must dispatch nine very exposed high Cs. Other great tenors, like Alfredo Kraus, excelled in the role. But no one ever tossed off those high Cs with the ease, pinging tone and utter glee of Mr. Pavarotti in those years. He was quickly promoted as the King of the High Cs, and so began his 30-year conquest of the public.By natural endowment Mr. Pavarotti was essentially a lyric tenor, ideally suited to lighter roles in Donizetti, Bellini and Verdi requiring lyrical grace and agile passage work. Yet his voice, like everything about him, was uncommonly large. With that big throbbing sound, he was tempted into weightier repertory requiring dramatic power and heft, like Calaf in Puccini's "Turandot." Some opera purists maintain that Mr. Pavarotti erred by straying from the lyric terrain. Don't tell that to anyone lucky enough to have heard him sing "Nessun dorma" in his prime, not just as a signature aria for televised stadium concerts, but in the context of a full production of "Turandot." Wow!Mr. Pavarotti, who was 19 when he finally began serious studies in voice, could barely read music. In itself this need not have been a problem. Enrico Caruso also had only rudimentary knowledge of music theory, and that didn't hurt him any. But this deficiency clearly set Mr. Pavarotti apart from Mr. Domingo, who grew up preparing orchestrations for his parents'   zarzuela company.Still, in singing, knowledge is not enough. Musical instinct is crucial, and Mr. Pavarotti had powerful instincts. He was never as interesting a singer as Mr. Domingo, but at his best he could be inspired and, in his way, profound. Moreover, he genuinely liked performing and pleasing people, which made up for his limited capabilities as an actor.During the first half of his career he worked hard to compensate for his late start and minimal knowledge. Though he sang only about 25 roles onstage, some involved risky ventures into less familiar repertory, like Fernando in Donizetti's "Favorita," filled with taxing spans of ornate vocal lines.Yet ultimately, for all that Mr. Pavarotti gave to opera, it's hard to avoid feeling that he never completely fulfilled his potential, that he squandered some of his awesome talent by letting his enablers turn him from a hard-working artist into an overindulged and sometimes clownish superstar.In the disappointing last decade of his career he coasted on his talent and popularity. His old friend and colleague Joan Sutherland dropped hints in interviews that he should retire. For me, the low point came in 1997, seven years before his last Met appearances, when he sang a recital on the Met stage as a pension-fund benefit, a program of songs by Schubert, Scarlatti and others, with a few hit arias. He was shockingly unprepared, glued to his music stand even during staples like Schubert's "Ave Maria." He tried to sing a selection of lighter Italian songs by Tosti from memory. But his pianist had to feed him the first word or two of nearly every line, as one could hear from Row L. What did this performance say to aspiring singers about the prerogatives of fame and fortune?But this is a day to remember the glory of Luciano Pavarotti, like the Met's 1996 production of Giordano's "Andrea Chénier," mounted for him. He hardly cut the figure of a dashing revolutionary poet in late-18th-century France. And if he was no longer the King of High Cs, he dispatched some kingly high B flats and a high B that was at least princely. Still, there was revolutionary ardor in the melting warmth, power and urgency of his singing. And there was that sound.50 CENT"Curtis" (Shady/Aftermath/Interscope)It's  harder and harder to find anyone who admits to being a fan of 50 Cent, though he remains America's most popular rapper. (Until someone proves otherwise.) Easy to hate and impossible to ignore, he invites scorn from hip-hop idealists, from liberal and conservative commentators, and from many (maybe most) of his peers. And as long as he keeps making hits, he will remain one of pop music's best-compensated scourges.It's that part about the hits that has been troubling him lately. After the first two singles ("Amusement Park" and "Straight to the Bank") failed to ignite, he pushed back the release date of his new album, "Curtis," which he named after himself. (He was born Curtis Jackson.) Then he tried again, with "I Get Money" and finally "Ayo Technology," a burbling collaboration with Justin Timberlake and Timbaland that sits at No. 20 on Billboard's Hot 100 chart. It really shouldn't be this hard for 50 Cent to find his way onto the charts. (By contrast "The Massacre," his previous album, sent all four of its singles into the Top 10.)Make no mistake, though: "Curtis" isn't some corporate-rap train wreck. Even when he is rhyming mischievously about his lucrative investment in Vitamin Water ("I took quarter-water, sold it bottles for two bucks") 50 Cent seems less like a suave chief executive and more like mischievous brat. Four years removed from the blockbuster success of "Get Rich or Die Tryin,' " he still carries himself like an underdog. He has always claimed to be a man who laughs in the face of death. Why shouldn't he laugh in the face of commercial death too?Despite everything, his mush-mouthed delivery is still charming, and so are his endless provocations. In "Fully Loaded Clip," he chuckles at high-profile couples as he delivers the sing-song chorus: "While Jay and Beyoncé was mwah-mwah, kissing, I was cooking one thousand grams in my kitchen/While Nas was telling Kelis, 'I love you, boo,' I was shining my 9, you know how I do." And "Come & Go," a thumping collaboration with Dr. Dre, describes something more efficient (and less friendly) than casual sex: "Bring 'em in, kick 'em out/Bring 'em in, kick 'em out."As usual 50 Cent front-loads the album with snarling threats and vignettes. (In "I'll Still Kill," a mesmerizing song based on a brittle keyboard line, Akon sings the menacing refrain. No one does ominous falsetto R&B better than Akon; come to think of it, no one else does it at all.) And as usual the shoot 'em ups exist mainly to add context to the sex songs and club tracks that are the main source of his popularity. "All of Me" an elegant duet with Mary J. Blige, almost makes up for "Follow My Lead," a snoozy one with Robin Thicke.Unlike Mr. Jackson himself, "Curtis" seems surprisingly modest. The album is neither as contagious as "Get Rich or Die Tryin' " (apparently it's possible to have an entire album stuck in your head) nor as devious as "The Massacre" (which included "A Baltimore Love Thing," an ode to a junkie delivered in the voice of heroin). 50 Cent has already challenged Kanye West to a sales battle (Mr. West's album also arrives tomorrow), and no doubt he has more tricks up his sleeve. If he wants to remain hip-hop's greatest troublemaker, he'll need them. KELEFA SANNEHPOPFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.APPLES IN STEREO (Sunday and Thursday) This Denver band made a splash in the mid-'90s with power-pop songs in loud primary colors, like the Beach Boys reborn as a New Wave act. Its new album, "New Magnetic Wonder" (Yep Roc), clarifies one point: it wasn't really the Beach Boys or the Beatles that Apples in Stereo was emulating all those years, it was Electric Light Orchestra. With Aqueduct. Sunday at 8:30 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $14 in advance, $16 at the door. Thursday at 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $14 in advance, $15 at the door. (Ben Sisario)CHUCK BERRY (Friday) Half a century ago, in songs like "Maybellene" and "Johnny B. Goode," Chuck Berry hit on a formula that gives him as much a claim as anybody to being the inventor of rock 'n' roll: a taut, fast boogie derived from R&B, matched to lyrics that celebrate the carefree, mythical teenage lifestyle. At 8, B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $90. (Sisario)BLACK LIPS (Tuesday and Wednesday) Sounding like a nightmarish variant of the 13th Floor Elevators or the Troggs, this Atlanta band plays a grisly version of 1960s garage rock, and its onstage antics have been known to descend into the scatological. With the Selmanaires.  Tuesday at 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. Wednesday at 9 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $15. (Sisario)BONDE DO ROLE (Friday and Saturday) This raucous Brazilian trio makes silly but contagiously high-energy pastiches of electronics, favela funk and fist-pumping hard rock, à la the early Beastie Boys. With Plastic Little. Friday at 9 p.m., Rose Center for Earth and Space, American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 81st Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org; $20. Saturday at 10 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sisario)JIM CAMPILONGO ELECTRIC TRIO, JENNI MULDAUR (Monday) A well-traveled guitar whiz who plays with Norah Jones, Mr. Campilongo can toss off delicate country riffs and screaming, distorted solos with ease. He has had a Monday night residency at the Living Room forever. Jenni Muldaur, a daughter of Maria and Geoff Muldaur, smiles her way through bluesy comfort food by Bo Diddley and James Brown. Also on the bill this week are Nancy Magarill and Stellar Moss. At 8 p.m., 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235, livingroomny.com; no cover.(Sisario)GEORGE CLINTON AND THE P-FUNK ALL-STARS (Tuesday) George Clinton's long-running band has become an American institution, using funk to subvert and outflank any Puritan reflexes. As P-Funk's leisurely jams amble from bubbling-mud funk to slow-grinding blues-rock to bits of doo-wop, jazz and hip-hop, the music is tight and loose at the same time. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $37.50 in advance, $42 at the door. (Jon Pareles)'THE DREAM CONCERT' (Tuesday) The name refers not only to the fact that Aretha Franklin and Stevie Wonder will be together onstage at Radio City Music Hall on Tuesday — along with Carlos Santana, Garth Brooks, Jessye Norman, Queen Latifah, Joss Stone, Babyface and others — but also to this benefit concert's cause, a memorial to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. on the National Mall in Washington. At 8 p.m., (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $154.50 to $1,004.50. (Sisario)DROPKICK MURPHYS (Saturday) Formed in Boston in 1996, Dropkick Murphys play gruff punk with some rowdy Irish roots and offer no mercy for posers or phonies. At 7:30 p.m., Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, roselandballroom.com; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Pareles)FAB FAUX (Saturday) There are Beatles tribute acts, and then there are Beatles tribute acts. This one, featuring the bassist Will Lee (of the "Late Show With David Letterman" band) and the guitarist Jimmy Vivino (from "Late Night With Conan O'Brien"), recreates even the most complex studio work without breaking a sweat. Saturday night it tries to slay the ultimate Beatles-tribute-act dragon, "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band." At 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 307-7171, beacontheatrenyc.com; sold out. (Sisario)ANA GABRIEL (Friday) This Mexican star's songs become sweeping vocal dramas, whether they are international-style diva anthems, marching slowly toward grand choruses, or gently bouncing mariachi rancheras and waltzes. At 8 p.m., WaMu Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $69.50 to $129.50. (Pareles)BEBEL GILBERTO, FORRO IN THE DARK (Tuesday) Bossa nova becomes a cool drink of electronics-infused bubbly in the songs of Bebel Gilberto, who, like her father, João Gilberto, makes her music as weightless as it is delicious. Forro in the Dark is one of New York's best and lowest-tech dance bands, playing a humble and sexy two-beat groove from northeastern Brazil called forró, made with hand-held percussion, flute and, since this is New York, a whiff of distorted guitar.  At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $27 in advance, $30 at the door. (Sisario)GIRL TALK, DAN DEACON (Saturday) Girl Talk is a Pittsburgh musician named Gregg Gillis who makes a zany and frequently hilarious kind of short-attention-span dance-pop by stitching together brief samples from hit songs. The Baltimore partymeister Dan Deacon has become an underground celebrity playing the kind of music Max Headroom might have made, with low-tech synthesizers pumping manic, smarmy melodies at high volume. With White Williams and Fiber Symmetry. At 5:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; sold out. Mr. Deacon also plays on Sunday at 2 p.m. along with USAisamonster, Big A Little A, Best Fwends, High Places and others, at the Yard, 400 Carroll Street, between Bond and Nevins Streets, Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, toddpnyc.com; $8. (Sisario)BEN HARPER (Saturday) Mr. Harper has had Top 10 success playing a conservative reflection of the kind of rootsy blues-soul that Taj Mahal perfected 40 years ago; it's rich and earnest but is overshadowed by its influences. At 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $35 to $65. (Sisario)INTERPOL, CAT POWER, LIARS (Friday) If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then Interpol, one of the few New York bands of the last decade to prosper at the major-label level, is very, very sincere about its love for the dark and sleek sounds of Joy Division and the Cure. It plays a homecoming show at Madison Square Garden with the superbly rueful Cat Power and the cacophonous Liars, At 8 p.m., (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $39.50. (Sisario)JOE HENRY, MARY GAUTHIER (Thursday) As a producer of Solomon Burke and others, Joe Henry has brought a luxuriant touch to music steeped in the tradition of redemptive, cathartic soul. But on his own records, and particularly his latest, the gorgeous but cynical "Civilians" (Anti-), Mr. Henry is unrelentingly bleak. Ms. Gauthier, from Baton Rouge, La., writes spare observations that suggest a modest but penetrating wisdom ("Every living thing could use a little mercy now"). At 8:30 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171;  $24.50. (Sisario)JAGUARES (Saturday) The Jaguares include former members of a leading Mexican rock band, Caifanes, and they add some alternative-rock touches to Caifanes's moody, dynamic songs. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $42. (Pareles)JOE'S PUB IN THE PARK (Wednesday and Thursday) Joe's Pub is taking over the Delacorte Theater in Central Park for two weeks of concerts, beginning on Wednesday with Lesley Gore — yes, Lesley Gore, singer of the 1963 hit "It's My Party — along with Jill Sobule — yes, Jill Sobule, singer of "I Kissed a Girl" from 1995 — and the New Standards. On Thursday Patty Griffin, whose songs are in "10 Million Miles," a new Off Broadway musical directed by Michael Mayer of "Spring Awakening" fame, shares the stage with Allen Toussaint, the New Orleans musical statesman. At 7 p.m., (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $40 on Wednesday, $50 on Thursday. (Sisario)KINGS OF LEON, BLACK REBEL MOTORCYCLE CLUB (Wednesday) All is boogie, boogie, boogie and whine, whine, whine in the Rolling-Stones-meets-Lynyrd-Skynyrd songs of the Kings of Leon, three brothers and a cousin from Tennessee, who do the sexy boogie-whine thing as well as it can be done. Black Rebel Motorcycle Club is not a Motorhead copycat, as its name would imply, but rather a dutiful and listless revivalist of the slithery gloom-rock of British bands like the Jesus and Mary Chain and Love and Rockets. With Manchester Orchestra. At 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $35 and $45. (Sisario)MUSIC DOWNTOWN (Monday through Wednesday) This excellently programmed festival outside 7 World Trade Center is also very efficiently programmed. In three days you can see the religion- and sex-obsessed Brooklyn bar-rockers the Hold Steady, the alt-country Old 97s and the nouveau-Merseybeat group Illinois (Monday); the songwriters M. Ward and Victoria Williams (Tuesday); and the peerless British producer-songwriter Nick Lowe, with the gospel group the Holmes Brothers and the local roots band Ollabelle (Tuesday). At 5:30 p.m., Greenwich and Barclay Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 509-0300, musicdowntown.org; free. (Sisario)NEW YORK WORLD FESTIVAL (Sunday) The theme of this afternoon at Central Park SummerStage is music from around the Mediterranean, with Hassan Hakmoun, who leads spellbinding trance ceremonies with the bluesy Gnawa music of Morocco; the Orchestra of Tangier; Amalia Christodoulakis Papastefanou, a singer from Rhodes; Christos Tiktapanidis, a singer from Greek Macedonia; and Dimonis d'Albopàs, from Mallorca. The concert is at 3 p.m., with workshops beginning at 1:30, at Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777, summerstage.org or newyorkworldfestival.org; free. (Sisario)STEVE ROSS (Friday and Saturday, and Tuesday through Thursday) This supremely dapper singer and pianist departs successfully from his suave comfort zone of Porter-Coward-Astaire material to perform songs (including several worthy rarities) by Stephen Sondheim. At 9 p.m., with additional performances Friday and Saturday at 11:30 p.m., Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331, algonquinhotel.com; cover, $60, with a $30 minimum; dinner required at the early shows Friday and Saturday.(Stephen Holden)LAS RUBIAS DEL NORTE (Saturday) Long in residence at Barbès, a cozy bar in Park Slope, Las Rubias del Norte play boleros, cumbias and other Latin styles, elegantly arranged for a small band and two songbird sopranos. At 10 p.m., 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; $10. (Sisario)SAM CHAMPION, JEALOUS GIRLFRIENDS (Saturday) Sam Champion derives its shambolic jangle from Pavement, singing about being "aggressively lazy"; the aggression comes in tense jabs of guitar that recall Neil Young. The Jealous Girlfriends float through soft and erotic clouds of guitar and keyboards that can turn grungy and turbulent. With Drug Run and the Swimmers. At 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10. (Sisario)SIMIAN MOBILE DISCO (Saturday) James Ford and Jas Shaw, the two British producers who make up Simian Mobile Disco, are the kings of the latest electro-rock trend in Britain. They've produced "new-rave" bands like Klaxons, but on their own, with their album "Attack Decay Sustain Release" (Wichita), they go for pure retro electronic pop, full of 1980s-vintage dance beats and candied hooks. At 9 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171;  $18 in advance, $20 at the door. (Sisario)PATTI SMITH (Friday) Now 60, Ms. Smith is one of the official ribbon-cutters and blessing-givers of New York rock. Last year she played the final show at CBGB, and a week ago her rhapsodic and elemental music opened the Music Hall of Williamsburg, in Brooklyn. Friday at the Beacon Theater she plays what by comparison is, oddly, just an ordinary gig. At 8 p.m., 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 307-7171, beacontheatrenyc.com; $25 to $45. (Sisario)TEDDY THOMPSON (Friday) The son of the great British folk-pop singers Richard and Linda Thompson, Teddy Thompson absorbed some of his parents' pithy melancholy, and his new album, "Up Front and Down Low" (Verve Forecast), has beautifully finessed chamber-pop versions of weepy country standards like "All My Friends Are Gonna Be Strangers" and "Walking the Floor Over You." With Christina Courtin, who writes tender, capricious songs in the Regina Spektor idiom. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Sisario)KT TUNSTALL (Wednesday) Like her breakout hit from 2005, "Black Horse and the Cherry Tree," the songs on Ms. Tunstall's strong second album, "Drastic Fantastic" (Virgin), to be released on Tuesday, set stories of romantic doubt and hesitation to a ringing, catchy folk-rock shaded with bluesy dissonance. With Tamarama. At 9 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; sold out. (Sisario)WALKMEN (Friday) The Walkmen play exquisitely articulated songs of exhaustion and disaffection, with Hamilton Leithauser's whine surrounded by an echoey wash of guitar and keyboards. Last fall they also revealed a surprising prankster side with a song-by-song cover of "Pussy Cats," the bizarre, boozy 1974 album by Harry Nilsson that was a product of his "lost weekend" period with John Lennon. With the Subjects. At 9 p.m., Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (212) 260-4700, musichallofwilliamsburg.com; $22. (Sisario)Dates are subject to change. ♦ denotes a Web-only listing.SEPTEMBER'BETWEEN THOUGHT AND SOUND: GRAPHIC NOTATION IN CONTEMPORARY MUSIC' In the 1940s composers began experimenting with graphic notation: scores that use symbols to suggest qualities of sound instead of specific pitches. Some have retained this approach, and their scores are artworks in their own right. The Kitchen is exhibiting graphic scores by Robert Ashley, Earle Brown, Meredith Monk, Joan La Barbara, Tom Johnson, Christian Wolff and others, with concerts by Either/Or (Sept. 14), Ne(x)tworks (Oct. 10) and Marina Rosenfeld and Alex Waterman (Oct. 20) to bring them to life. Through Oct. 20. 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793. thekitchen.org.'MARGARET GARNER' Gerard Mortier is about to sweep in and reinvent the New York City Opera, but Paul Kellogg planned the company's new season before he retired as general and artistic director, opening it with a reminder that populism and political engagement are deep in the company's DNA. "Margaret Garner," Richard Danielpour's collaboration with Toni Morrison, tells the real-life story of a fugitive slave who murdered her daughter  to save her from servitude. (Ms. Morrison's novel "Beloved" is based on the same incidents.) Tazewell Thompson directs, with Tracie Luck in the title role. Opens Tuesday. New York State Theater.NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC Depending how you rate film music in general and John Williams in particular, the New York Philharmonic's decision to give Mr. Williams the first three nights of its season to conduct and discuss his music (with film clips and with the director Stanley Donen as a co-host) will seem either crass or brilliant. But how often does the Philharmonic open its season with a composer of any stripe on its podium? You can have it both ways: Mr. Williams's concerts are followed by Lorin Maazel's "official" opening night, a Dvorak program with Yo-Yo Ma playing the Cello Concerto. Sept. 14-16; Sept. 18. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.♦ RACHMANINOFF MASTER CLASS There are few better ways to learn about details of interpretation than to see a master lead a rehearsal and coaching session. Vladimir Ashkenazy knows Rachmaninoff's Third Piano Concerto from both the keyboard and the podium. For this rehearsal and full performance by the Juilliard Orchestra, he will conduct, but he will probably have plenty of illuminating advice for Hong Xu, the Juilliard student playing the solo part. Sept. 23. Juilliard School.'LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR' A dentist with a set of headphones and a CD player once let me compare this classic Donizetti warble-and-squeak-fest with having root canal work. That the Donizetti compared unfavorably was hardly surprising. Still, people adore this kind of thing, and more power to them: they can revel in its famous mad scene and sextet when the Metropolitan Opera opens its season with Mary Zimmerman's new staging. And the prospect of hearing Natalie Dessay sing the title role has its attractions. James Levine conducts, and the opening-night performance will be beamed live to Times Square. Bring your own Novocain. Opens Sept. 24. Metropolitan Opera House.BEETHOVEN, PART 1 Performers hardly need an anniversary to revisit Beethoven's major works, or even complete cycles, but here's one for this year, just in case: last March was the 180th anniversary of Beethoven's death. Flimsy? Too bad. Promising cycles abound this season, starting with the Pacifica Quartet's traversal of the string quartets in 18 free lunchtime concerts. Sept. 24-26; Oct. 8-10 and 22-24; Feb. 11-13 and 25-27; March 10-12. Philosophy Hall, Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Manhattan, (212) 854-7799. millertheater.com.'THE TCHAIKOVSKY EXPERIENCE' Lorin Maazel's "festival" this year with the New York Philharmonic is a survey of the Tchaikovsky symphonies and a few concertos and ballet excerpts. Not that Tchaikovsky isn't plentiful in Mr. Maazel's programming anyway, and if you've heard him conduct any, you'll expect the over-the-top manipulation that, for him, passes as passion. Still, it may be worth braving his readings of the Third and Fourth Symphonies to hear the superb Janine Jansen play the Violin Concerto (Oct. 3-6). Sept. 28-Oct. 13. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.'CHANCE ENCOUNTER' Here is one of those performances that make downtown Downtown. The composer Lisa Bielawa, the soprano Susan Narucki and the new-music chamber band the Knights, will take over East Broadway near the Seward Park Library to perform this work based on overheard conversation, collected over the last year and set to music. The musicians wander between fixed stations a block apart, and the random street sounds are part of the four-hour piece. Sept. 28. Seward Park Library, 192 East Broadway, at Essex Street, Lower East Side. lisabielawa.net/chance_section.BEETHOVEN, PART 2 You see? Another Beethoven cycle already. The very solid (and occasionally stolid) Kalichstein-Laredo-Robinson Trio plays Beethoven's  seven piano trios (plus variation sets and an allegretto) in chronological order in a single day. Sept. 30. 92nd Street Y.'THE WRECKERS' Leon Botstein's mission with the American Symphony Orchestra is the exploration of unusual works, including once popular scores that have slipped off the radar. He opens the orchestra's 45th season with a concert version of Ethel Smyth's 1906 opera, a score of Wagnerian heft that tells of two lovers who try to warn ships approaching the Cornish coast that they are being lured to the rocks by locals waiting to plunder the wrecks. Sept. 30. Avery Fisher Hall.OCTOBER♦ SINFONIA NEW YORK New York's growing pool of freelance period-instrument players recombines to form a new orchestra led by John Scott, the English conductor and organist who directs the excellent choirs of men and boys at St. Thomas Church on Fifth Avenue. The inaugural program offers Haydn's Symphony No. 6 ("Le Matin") and "Harmoniemesse," with the St. Thomas Church choirs. (The concert is part of the extensive New York's Early Music Celebration 2007, which runs from Sept. 23 through Nov. 8.) Oct. 1. Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, (212) 749-2848, nyemc.org.CARNEGIE HALL OPENING WEEK Claudio Abbado and the Lucerne Festival Orchestra take up residence at Carnegie Hall for the opening week of its 117th season, offering two titanic works: Beethoven's Ninth Symphony (Oct. 3, 4) and Mahler's Third (Oct. 6). Chamber players from the ensemble play concerts at Weill Recital Hall and Zankel Hall, and on the orchestra's night off, the dazzling pianist Pierre-Laurent Aimard takes over Carnegie as conductor and soloist with the Mahler Chamber Orchestra, which makes up the core of the Lucerne orchestra. Oct. 3-7. Carnegie Hall.KRONOS QUARTET You never know what to expect when the Kronos Quartet pulls into town, but it's almost invariably something provocative, in a good way. In "More Than Four," its contribution to the Next Wave festival, the quartet collaborates with two Finnish pop avant-gardists: Kimmo Pohjonen, an accordionist and singer, and Samuli Kosminen, an accordionist and manipulator of electronic sounds. The program includes "Uniko," by Mr. Pohjonen and Mr. Kosminen, with video by Mikki Kunttu, and "Dear Mme.," a music theater work by Erik Sanko. Oct. 3, 5-6. BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100. bam.org. (The Kronos also plays new music by Vladimir Martynov and Clint Mansell at Zankel Hall on Feb. 22.)GOTHAM EARLY MUSIC SCENE This new organization devoted to fostering early-music activity in New York introduces itself with three quadruple-bill concerts, offered in the style of rock shows at the Fillmore East in the 1960s (but without the light shows and wafting herbal scents). The extravaganza includes performances by a dozen of New York's best medieval-through-Baroque bands: Trefoil, Parthenia, Lionheart and Rebel (Oct. 4); Repast, Asteria, the New York Consort of Viols and the Spiritus Collective (Oct. 7, afternoon) and Artek, Pomerium, My Lord Chamberlain's Consort and the Ivory Consort (Oct. 7, evening). Times Center, 242 West 41st Street, (212) 556-4300. thetimescenter.com.ESA-PEKKA SALONEN Though best known as a conductor, now finishing his term as music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, Esa-Pekka Salonen has always made composition his first love. His music — witty, colorful and technically astute — should make a fine opener for the Miller Theater's important Composer Portraits series. The performers include Imani Winds, the cellist Darrett Adkins, the soprano Tony Arnold and the pianist Blair McMillen, with Jeffrey Milarsky conducting. Oct. 5. Miller Theater.TEATRO LIRICO The Boston Early Music Festival has established a presence in New York with its series at the comfortable, acoustically warm, visually striking new chamber music hall at the Morgan Library. Stephen Stubbs, the lutenist and guitarist who directs the festival (with Paul O'Dette), leads his Teatro Lirico in works of Monteverdi, Farina, Hidalgo and Marini. But the group's real specialty is improvisation, and a helping of that is promised too. Oct. 5. Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008. morganlibrary.org.'APPOMATTOX' Philip Glass's latest opera is set in the final days of the Civil War. Like his "Satyagraha," which examined the development of Gandhi's philosophy of nonviolent resistance, "Appomattox" focuses on a historical moment rich in social and political consequences. Its characters include Ulysses S. Grant, Robert E. Lee and Abraham Lincoln, and the libretto, by Christopher Hampton, borrows lyrics from Civil War songs. Andrew Shore and Dwayne Croft star as the opposing generals, and Dennis Russell Davies, Mr. Glass's most experienced interpreter, conducts. Opens Oct. 5. San Francisco Opera, War Memorial Opera House, (415) 864-3330. sfopera.com.LOS ANGELES PHILHARMONIC In "Sibelius Unbound," Esa-Pekka Salonen explores the seven Sibelius symphonies and a handful of tone poems, with contemporary scores by Kaija Saariaho and Mr. Salonen himself providing a glimpse of more up-to-date Finnish music. The American premiere of Ms. Saariaho's "Passion de Simone," with Dawn Upshaw singing, is a bona fide event even apart from the festival. An American viewpoint is offered as well: Steven Stucky's "Radical Light," commissioned for the occasion. This is what an orchestra's festival programming should be: paying attention, New York Philharmonic? Oct. 5-26. Walt Disney Concert Hall, Los Angeles (323) 850-2000. laphil.com.BEETHOVEN, PART 3 Not long ago, if Carnegie Hall presented a complete Beethoven sonata cycle, the performer in the spotlight was inevitably Alfred Brendel. Now Andras Schiff, an astute Beethoven player of the generation after Mr. Brendel's (he is 53) is staking his claim. He plays half the sonatas this season, with the rest on account. Oct. 21, 24; April 16, 18. Carnegie Hall. (If you must hear all the works and want to know what the youngest generation makes of them, the Mannes College the New School for Music is presenting free student performances of the sonatas and other works from Sept. 23 to Dec. 11; 150 West 85th Street, (212) 580-0210. newschool.edu/mannesANGELA HEWITT This Canadian pianist plays Bach's "Well-Tempered Clavier." Oct. 26, 28. Carnegie Hall.'CENDRILLON' Massenet's rendering of the Cinderella story, painted in rich Gallic melodies, finds its way to the stage less often than Rossini's "Cenerentola," but its attractions are stronger. The New York City Opera offers a new production by Renaud Doucet, with the French soprano Cassandre Berthon in the title role, Katherine Jolly as the Fairy Godmother and Frédéric Antoun as Prince Charming. Opens Oct. 27. New York State Theater.♦ NEWBERRY CONSORT This respected period-instrument group, founded in 1982 and based in Chicago, has lately been invigorated by an influx of Boston musicians. The current lineup — Paul O'Dette, lutenist; Ellen Hargis, soprano; William Hite, tenor; and David Douglass violinist — brings a program of music from Shakespeare's plays, as well as improvisations by Mr. Douglass and Mr. O'Dette, to the Music Before 1800 series. Oct. 28. Corpus Christi Church.MET CHAMBER ENSEMBLE After weeks of sawing away in the pit, chained to the likes of "Lucia di Lammermoor," these players must be thrilled to find themselves in the spotlight with substantial music on their stands. No wonder these concerts are so vibrant. With James Levine conducting and the sopranos Judith Bettina and Susan Narucki as the soloists, the ensemble offers works by Elliott Carter, Milton Babbitt and John Harbison. Then, reprising a performance Mr. Levine led at Tanglewood in 2006, the three composers take up speaking roles in Stravinsky's "Histoire du Soldat." (If you're wondering, Mr. Babbitt is the Devil.) Oct. 28. Weill Recital Hall.'IL SANT'ALESSIO' Stefano Landi's 1631 opera about the life of Saint Alexis is said to be the first opera about a historical figure (as opposed to a Greek myth). William Christie, whose visits to New York with Les Arts Florissants are always season highlights for anyone interested in Baroque opera, restored this rarity to life in a 1996 Erato recording. He brings it to New York, semistaged by Benjamin Lazar, with a cast heavy in countertenors. (The original was sung by castratos.) Oct. 29, 30. Rose Theater.JORDI SAVALL There haven't been many superstar viola da gamba players since Marin Marais hung up his bow in 1728. But ever since the supremely elegant gambist Jordi Savall recorded music for the film "Tous les Matins du Monde" (1991), he has been one of the early-music world's biggest draws. He leads his Baroque orchestra, Le Concert des Nations, in works by Brade, Lully and Purcell on Oct. 29 in Zankel Hall and plays a solo recital on Oct. 31 in Weill Recital Hall.ST. PETERSBURG PHILHARMONIC Yuri Temirkanov leads this storied orchestra in three programs, each with a Prokofiev work as its centerpiece. But the first two also include hits of Germanic Romanticism: Beethoven's Violin Concerto (with Julia Fischer as soloist) and Schumann's Piano Concerto (with Nelson Freire). The last program offers works by Sviridov and Mussorgsky as preludes to Prokofiev's "Alexander Nevsky." Oct. 30-Nov. 1. Carnegie Hall.LORRAINE HUNT LIEBERSON More than a year after the death of this eloquent mezzo-soprano, the musical world still feels the loss. But concert recordings are slowly making their way to CD. Among the latest is her appearance with the New York Festival of Song at Caramoor in July, 2004. The program, "Spanish Love Songs," includes works by Schumann, Wolff, Ravel, Roussel and a handful of actual Spaniards: among them, Granados, Turina and Mompou. Hunt Lieberson is joined by Joseph Kaiser, tenor, and the festival's pianist-directors, Steven Blier and Michael Barrett. October. Bridge Records.♦ 'DON GIOVANNI' The young podium wizard Gustavo Dudamel, whose 2006 recording of Beethoven's Fifth and Seventh Symphonies was a sensation, releases his first opera recording: Mozart's "Don Giovanni," with a cast from La Scala that includes Carlos Álvarez, Ildebrando D'Arcangelo, Carmela Remigio, Monica Bacelli and Attila Jun. October. Deutsche Grammophon.NOVEMBERBERLIN IN LIGHTS Carnegie Hall and other New York institutions present a festival celebrating Berlin's cultural life in halls and cultural settings around New York. Nov. 2-18.MARC-ANDRÉ HAMELIN This decidedly nonglitzy Canadian pianist is a musician's musician, with a vast repertory and the interpretive sensibility to find something fresh in everything he touches. So although his recital program looks commonplace — Haydn and Chopin sonatas, Debussy's "Préludes," Book 2 — enlightenment may be in the offing. Nov. 4. Rose Theater.'VANESSA' Contemporary composers have had a tough time making opera work, but Samuel Barber tapped into a thoroughly traditional approach his first time out: He took a scarcely creditable libretto (by Gian Carlo Menotti) peopled with deeply neurotic characters who behave badly and drive one another to despair, and set it to vocal writing so ravishingly lyrical and orchestration so rich that you almost forget how ludicrous the story is. Singers who can internalize this madness enough to make listeners care about the fruitcakes they portray are both crucial and rare, but Lauren Flanigan has proved her ability to do that time and again. Expect her to excel in the title role, with Katharine Goeldner and Ryan MacPherson as the other players in this odd multigenerational love triangle. Michael Kahn directs Anne Manson conducts this City Opera production. Opens Nov. 4. New York State Theater.JUILLIARD ORCHESTRA The student ensembles at New York's three major conservatories perform at startlingly high levels, but the Juilliard musicians play with the brightest polish. The centerpiece of this program, led by the intrepid Dennis Russell Davies, is the American premiere of Alfred Schnittke's unfinished Symphony No. 9, completed by Alexander Raskatov at the request of Schnittke's widow. Mr. Raskatov's own "Nunc Dimittis" (a choral setting of texts by Joseph Brodsky and Starets Siluan), in memory of Schnittke, will also be heard. Nov. 7. Avery Fisher Hall.NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC The New York Philharmonic's associate conductor, the petite powerhouse Xian Zhang, joins the violinist Vadim Repin in Lalo's "Symphonie Espagnole" and can be counted on to give a sweeping reading of Beethoven's Seventh Symphony. But the real draw here is "Announcement," by the inventive young composer Huang Ruo. Actually, it is one movement of a short three-movement work, and you would think that the Philharmonic could manage the whole thing (as the Philadelphia Orchestra did in 2000). Nov. 8-10. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.♦ H. K. GRUBER Alas, the idiosyncratic Austrian composer has set aside his own music on this visit, but his spirited recordings of Kurt Weill's music show him to be a master interpreter of the prewar Berlin style. As part of Berlin in Lights, he leads the Zankel Band (New York freelancers) in a program of Weill and Hanns Eisler, including Weill's "Kleine Dreigroschenmusik" and, naturally, "Berlin im Licht." Nov. 8. Zankel Hall.GUSTAVO DUDAMEL, PART 1 This young conductor leads the Simón Bolívar Youth Orchestra of Caracas. Nov. 11. Carnegie Hall.BERLIN PHILHARMONIC The orchestra appears as the centerpiece of the festival Berlin in Lights in three concerts. Nov. 13-14, 16. Carnegie Hall.ST. LAWRENCE STRING QUARTET Recent personnel changes have not dulled this group's edge or its appetite for unusual programming. In this visit with the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, it plays quartets of Franck and Schumann and is joined by the soprano Heidi Grant Murphy and the pianist Kevin Murphy in two works for piano quintet and soprano: Chausson's "Chanson Perpétuelle" and Roberto Sierra's "Songs From the Diaspora" in its premiere. Nov. 14. New York Society for Ethical Culture.'ONE LOSS PLUS' The violinist and composer Daniel Bernard Roumain joins forces with Janet Wong, a video designer, and Wynne Bennett, a pianist, in this work about loss, isolation and optimism. At its heart is a video collage that includes music, narration, video from YouTube and text from MySpace. Mr. Roumain, whose influences range from the standard classical canon to hip-hop, jazz and rock, weaves a meditative hourlong score around all this. Nov. 14, 16-17. BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100. bam.org.ELLIOTT CARTER, PART 1 Elliott Carter has become a rapid composing machine lately; you could probably fill whole programs during his centenary celebrations in 2008 with premieres. James Levine conducts Mr. Carter's new Horn Concerto with the Boston Symphony. James Sommerville, the orchestra's principal horn player and the soloist, is no doubt thanking his stars that Mr. Carter's once craggy style has softened lately, but it's undoubtedly still a challenge. Nov. 15, 17, 20. Symphony Hall, Boston, (888) 266-1200. bso.org.THOMAS ADÈS This English composer appears in his other guise as pianist in a solo recital. Nov. 19. Zankel Hall.'IPHIGÉNIE EN TAURIDE' Gluck's operas have the melodic grace of Handel and the harmonic ingenuity of Mozart, yet they have a more tenuous hold on the standard repertory than frippery by Donizetti and Bellini. Go figure. Beyond the music itself, the principal draw of this new Met production is Susan Graham's portrayal of Iphigénie, and no doubt there is ample curiosity about what Plácido Domingo will make of Oreste. Stephen Wadsworth directs, and Louis Langrée, best known for his reviving influence at the Mostly Mozart Festival, makes his Met debut in the pit. Opens Nov. 27. Metropolitan Opera House. (The staging is a co-production with the Seattle Opera, which presents it with a different cast, Oct. 13-27.)GUSTAVO DUDAMEL, PART 2 The young Venzuelan conductor returns to make his debut with the New York Philharmonic. Nov. 29-30; Dec. 1, 4. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.BEETHOVEN, PART 4 The violinist Christian Tetzlaff and the pianist Alexander Lonquich bring to their performances both sharp analytical sensibilities and a clear feeling for the music's emotional undercurrents. That balance, weighted slightly toward the emotional in both cases, should serve them well in Beethoven's 10 violin sonatas, played chronologically in three concerts. Nov. 29; Dec. 2, 4. 92nd Street Y.DECEMBERKIROV ORCHESTRA Much as James Levine has done with the Met Orchestra, Valery Gergiev has taken the Kirov Orchestra out of the opera pit and made it into a glorious instrument that, at full throttle, can be almost frightening. That should be the case when Mr. Gergiev leads Stravinsky's "Rite of Spring" in the first of three concerts. The programs include a hefty helping of Russian opera as well, with the company's chorus and soloists: Act I of Glinka's "Ruslan and Ludmila" shares the bill with the "Rite"; the second concert is wholly devoted to Rimsky-Korsakov's "Snow Maiden"; and the last pairs a Stravinsky opera, "Les Noces," with Act II of Borodin's "Prince Igor." Dec. 1-2, 4. Carnegie Hall.'THE GATE' The Brooklyn Philharmonic, having come through hard times, continues to revive itself under the direction of Michael Christie. And it isn't playing safe: here it devotes a full evening to music by Tan Dun, including "Water Music," based on percussive sounds made by water, and "The Gate," a new multimedia work in which three tragic heroines from Western and Chinese literature make their cases for restoration to life. Dec. 5, 7-8. Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100. bam.org.ELLIOTT CARTER, PART 2 The run-up to the Carter centenary begins in earnest with the first New York staging of his opera, "What Next?" The last performance is on Mr. Carter's 99th birthday. Mr. Carter wrote the opera when he was 90, and like many of his other recent scores, it bristles with energy and variety. It's a philosophical ghost story: Six people crawl from the wreckage of a car crash and reconstruct their relationships, unaware that they are dead. Christopher Alden directs, and Jeffrey Milarsky conducts Axiom, a Juilliard ensemble. Dec. 7-9, 11. Miller Theater.'MESSIAH' You can't swing a dead cat in New York this month without hitting a performance of Handel's "Messiah," and you can find every possible approach to singing it. If you want a sublime, beautifully shaped sound, produced by a choir of men and boys and supported by a period-instrument orchestra (Concert Royal), the performance at St. Thomas Church is the one to hear. John Scott conducts; the vocal soloists are Amanda Balestrieri, Ryland Angel, Scott Williamson and Craig Phillips. Dec. 11, 13. St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street, (212) 664-9360. saintthomaschurch.org.EARLY MUSIC NEW YORK Frederick Renz's flexible period-instrument ensemble typically offers something unusual in its Christmas concerts. Having explored medieval plays, Renaissance carols and Baroque choral works, Mr. Renz leads "Kerstmis in Holland": Dutch Christmas music from the 16th and 17th centuries. Dec. 16, 21, 23, 25. Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 280-0330. earlymusicny.org.♦ NEW YORK STRING ORCHESTRA This student ensemble, assembled annually from the young musicians who convene in New York for an intensive program of master classes, rehearsals and concerts during the holidays, invariably approaches its performances with freshness and energy. Founded by Alexander Schneider in 1968, it is now conducted by Jaime Laredo, who has preserved the spirit (and some of the style) of Schneider's sublimely Romantic music-making. This year it offers a Mozart evening, with Yefim Bronfman as soloist in the Piano Concerto No. 22, and a heftier program with works by Richard Danielpour, Dvorak and Beethoven (the Fourth Concerto, with André Watts). Dec. 24, 28. Carnegie Hall.KATE ROYAL This young British soprano, creating a stir in Europe, is about to make her New York debut at the Frick Collection on March 30. Meanwhile, a Schumann CD, with "Liederkreis" as its centerpiece, should provide a sense of what the fuss is about. December. Hyperion Records.JANUARY'CONCRETE FREQUENCY' The Los Angeles Philharmonic starts the year with a compact new-music festival, led by David Robertson and touching on everything from works with film (Copland's "City" and a new project by Michael Gordon and Bill Morrison) to works that revel in noise-making, grand or subtle (Varèse's "Amériques" and Pierre Boulez's "Explosante Fixe"), with Feldman, Ives, Zappa, George Crumb and others along the way. Jan. 4-6, 10-13. Walt Disney Concert Hall, Los Angeles, (323) 850-2000. laphil.com.NEW YORK GILBERT AND SULLIVAN PLAYERS, PART 1 Albert de Bergeret's troupe presents the Gilbert and Sullivan repertory in economical but attractive productions that maintain the tradition of weaving topical jokes into the original texts. Sometimes it works, sometimes you groan, but the updating is always lively and the musical values are solid. The company offers a newly expanded split season: "Princess Ida," Jan. 4, 6, 12; "The Pirates of Penzance," Jan. 5, 8 11, 13; "Trial by Jury" and a revue of favorite arias, Jan. 10; and "The Mikado," Jan. 12 (with more to come in June). City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212. nygasp.org.MERKIN REBORN Merkin Concert Hall, 30 years old and closed for renovations since the spring, reopens with a celebratory concert in which Aaron Jay Kernis conducts the Lark Chamber Artists in his own "Simple Songs" and Copland's "Music for the Theater." But perhaps more inviting among the opening events is the hall's Grand Piano Marathon, a free six-hour concert by a dozen classical and jazz pianists. The classical players include Richard Goode, Garrick Ohlsson, Stephen Gosling, Blair McMillen, Lisa Moore and Ursula Oppens, who plays a new work written for the occasion by William Bolcom. Jan. 8 (reopening); Jan. 21 (marathon).PIERRE BOULEZ Carnegie Hall's "Making Music" series puts new music in a chat-show format: The composer is interviewed between performances, with everything from biography and philosophy to the music at hand open for discussion. This time the subject is Pierre Boulez, the once fearsome, now almost (if not quite) beloved godfather of Total Serialism. The Lucerne Festival Academy Ensemble performs "Le Marteau Sans Maître" and "Sur Incises." Jan. 17. Zankel Hall.RICCARDO MUTI AND THE NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC Having twice declined the music directorship of the New York Philharmonic, Riccardo Muti has signed on as the official Elder Presence during Alan Gilbert's tenure, starting in 2009. But for now he's just a visitor. Count on elegant, energetic readings of Liszt's "From the Cradle to the Grave," Brahms's Second Piano Concerto (with Leif Ove Andsnes) and one of Mr. Muti's specialties, Scriabin's "Poem of Ecstasy" during his first week. He leads Schumann's Piano Concerto (with Radu Lupu) and Bruckner's Sixth Symphony in his second program. And he returns later in the season with Elgar's Violin Concerto (with Pinchas Zukerman) and Copland's Third Symphony, not his long suit but a nice gesture. Jan. 17- 19, 23-26; March 27-29. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.ELLIOTT CARTER, PART 3 Ursula Oppens, one of Elliott Carter's best and most devoted interpreters since her days as the pianist of Speculum Musicae in the 1970s, devotes a program to his complete solo piano music. Jan. 17. Symphony Space.SCHUBERT SONGS Every now and then, Carnegie Hall assembles a handful of superb lieder singers for an all-star Schubertiade, and there is nothing like it. The roster this time is Dorothea Röschmann, soprano; Ian Bostridge, tenor; and Thomas Quasthoff, bass-baritone, with Julius Drake at the keyboard. As fantasy teams go, this one looks hard to beat, and the program is packed with favorites, including "An Mignon," "Der König in Thule," "Gretchen am Spinnrade" and "Szene aus Goethes Faust." Jan. 19. Carnegie Hall.♦ SEQUENTIA Benjamin Bagby sings and accompanies himself on a medieval harp, and Norbert Rodenkirchen fills out the textures with harp and flutes in a program devoted to apocalyptic texts from the 8th through the 11th centuries. Music Before 1800. Jan. 20. Corpus Christi Church.JUILLIARD FOCUS! Joel Sachs's annual Focus! festival at the Juilliard School typically examines music that represents either a particular philosophy (serialism, for example) or a geographic region. This year's festival, "All About Elliott," celebrates — you guessed it — Elliott Carter's centenary. But "about" is a decisive qualifier here. Although Pierre Boulez conducts the New Juilliard Ensemble and the Lucerne Festival Academy in three important Carter scores — the Triple Duo, "Penthode" and the Clarinet Concerto — there is context as well: music by Varèse, Stravinsky and Mr. Boulez himself. Jan. 25-Feb. 2. Juilliard School.GUITAR MARATHON At its first guitar marathon, in 2006, the 92nd Street Y did the natural thing: it presented a daylong parade of mostly young players, with a few guitarist-composers among them. This time the marathon has a theme: Brazilian music, which dances between classical forms and distinctly Brazilian jazz and pop styles. The bill includes performances by Carlos Barbosa-Lima, Badi Assad, Arthur Kampela, Celso Machado and many others in afternoon and evening sessions. Jan. 27. 92nd Street Y.ELLIOTT CARTER, PART 4 The string quartets are the key to Mr. Carter's music: each was composed at a time when his style was moving in a new direction, and the full set of five — which the Pacifica Quartet is performing in one sitting — traces the arc of his career. Jan. 30. New York Society for Ethical Culture.NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC Last season Lorin Maazel wiggled his way through all the Brahms orchestral works, but he apparently believes enough time has elapsed to revisit his distorted view of the Fourth Symphony. The best defense is to turn up for the first half only, and hear one of Luciano Berio's most enduring scores, the Sinfonia. It should be good: Mr. Maazel tends to save his most severe score-twisting for his programs' closing works. Jan. 30-Feb. 2. Avery Fisher Hall. (The Philharmonic musicians will also celebrate Berio, who died in 2003, with the complete set of his fiendishly difficult "Sequenzas" on the afternoon of Feb. 2 at the Rose Theater.) nyphil.org.'SYMPHONY OF A THOUSAND' Back when he was the fountainhead of ferocious modernism, no one would have pegged Pierre Boulez as a great Mahler conductor. But he has made magnificent recordings of some of the symphonies, and now he adds the Eighth to the series, leading the Staatskapelle Berlin and a handful of adult and children's choruses. The soloists are Twyla Robinson, Soile Isokoski, Adriane Queiros, Michelle DeYoung, Johan Botha, Simone Schröder, Hanno Müller-Brachmann and Robert Holl. January. Deutsche Grammophon.'LE NOZZE DI FIGARO' Nikolaus Harnoncourt leads the Vienna Philharmonic and a solid, starry cast — Anna Netrebko, Bo Skovhus, Dorothea Röschmann, Ildebrando D'Arcangelo, Christine Schäfer, Marie McLaughlin — in one of the peaks of the operatic canon. January. Deutsche Grammophon.FEBRUARY♦ CLERKS' GROUP The "Roman de Fauvel," composed in the 13th and 14th centuries, included among its motets, rounds and ballads texts that satirized church and court corruption. Judging that audiences today would be happier hearing contemporary officials knew being skewered, the Clerks' Group, a superb English vocal ensemble, has commissioned a new text from Ian Duhig. For listeners of a more purist bent, slides of the original manuscript will be projected during the performance at Music Before 1800. Feb. 3. Corpus Christi Church.CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER Last season the society devoted its winter festival to English music, and the results could hardly have been duller. But the expansive historical overview of American music for which it is marshalling its forces this time looks promising. The vast ground covered includes a Benjamin Franklin string quartet; glimpses of the late Romanticism of MacDowell, Griffes and Amy Cheney Beach; the exoticism of Gottschalk; and the modernist quirkiness of Henry Cowell and John Cage. Classics like Barber's String Quartet, Lukas Foss's "Time Cycle" and Ruth Crawford Seeger's String Quartet are presented, as are works by Gershwin, Copland and Ives. Premieres by Joan Tower and Mario Davidovsky are on the bill as well. Feb. 8-24. New York Society for Ethical Culture.AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA Dennis Russell Davies returns to the orchestra he founded to lead "Culture Shock," a program in which stylistic boundaries move from porous to nonexistent. There are new works by two very different jazz musicians — the pianist Uri Caine and the saxophonist Fred Ho, who join the orchestra as soloists — as well as "Resolution/Tabuh Gari" for Balinese percussion and orchestra by Michael Tenzer, and Terry Riley's raga-influenced "Remember This O Mind," with Mr. Riley on vocals and synthesizer. Feb. 8. Zankel Hall.BALTIMORE SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA This orchestra's musicians generated lots of sound and fury — fury, mostly — when Marin Alsop was appointed music director last year. But Ms. Alsop appears to have settled in. This eclectic program — a new work by the iconoclastic Steven Mackey, familiar ones from Strauss, Debussy and Stravinsky — should reveal a lot about the state of the conductor-orchestra chemistry. Feb. 9. Carnegie Hall.ST. LOUIS SYMPHONY Many an orchestra (or sometimes just their audiences) has eyed the St. Louis Symphony jealously since David Robertson took over as music director. He has revitalized its repertory and is said to have it playing superbly. Here he shows it off with Messiaen's mammoth, difficult "Turangalila Symphony" one night and a program of Stravinsky, Szymanowski (the Violin Concerto, with Christian Tetzlaff) and Mozart the next. Feb. 16. Carnegie Hall.PETER LIEBERSON Ever since the Piano Concerto he wrote for Peter Serkin in 1983 put him in the spotlight, a direct, unequivocal soulfulness and an appealing lyricism have been hallmarks of Peter Lieberson's style. His vocal music, written largely for his wife, Lorraine Hunt Lieberson, who died last year, is particularly striking. But Mr. Lieberson has a varied chamber music catalog, and this concert in the Composer Portraits series fills out the picture by including early works like the Flute Variations (1971) and the Concert for Four Groups of Instruments (1973) as well as scores from the 1980s and '90s. Feb. 21. Miller Theater. (You will also want to catch Mr. Lieberson's exquisite "Neruda Songs" performed by Kelley O'Connor, the mezzo-soprano, with Bernard Haitink and the Chicago Symphony on May 15 at Carnegie Hall.)RUSSIAN NATIONAL ORCHESTRA This orchestra, founded in 1990, at first staked its claim to fame as an expression of post-Soviet private enterprise: it runs entirely without state financing and has built its reputation on the power and precision of its young players. It has taken a while to establish a distinctive sound, but when Vladimir Jurowski brought it to New York last year, that sound seemed in the making as well. Mr. Jurowski and company return with both Brahms piano concertos (the First with Stephen Hough, the Second with Garrick Ohlsson), a completion of Schubert's "Unfinished" Symphony (rarely a good idea; this one is by Anton Safronov) and Tchaikovsky "Pathétique." Feb. 23-24. Avery Fisher Hall.'WINTERREISE' To judge from Thomas Quasthoff's moving performance of Schubert's "Schöne Müllerin" at Carnegie Hall two seasons ago — or, let's face it, his renderings of just about anything — it is probably worth the trip to Boston to hear him sing "Winterreise," Schubert's most wrenching song cycle, with James Levine at the piano. Feb 24. Symphony Hall, Boston, (888) 266-1200. bso.org.CHICAGO SYMPHONY When the "interactive timeline" on this orchestra's fancy Web site stops at 1999, you know something's amiss. Currently between music directors and with no obvious prospects on the horizon, the orchestra has Bernard Haitink as its principal conductor and Pierre Boulez as conductor emeritus. Yet even without a full-fledged leader, the performances have been gleaming on recent visits, particularly with Mr. Boulez on the podium. In one concert he leads Matthias Pintscher's "Osiris," Debussy's "Images" and Bartok's Third Piano Concerto with Mitsuko Uchida; in the other, Stravinsky's "Petrouchka" and Berlioz's "Nuits d'Été" with Susan Graham. Feb. 25-26. Carnegie Hall.ALARM WILL SOUND Originally a student ensemble at the Eastman School of Music, Alarm Will Sound has become one of the most vital and original ensembles on the American music scene. Its players are young, virtuosic and full of lively ideas (some compositional: several members compose). Lately it has added early music to its mix: a work by Johannes Ciconia turns up here amid works by John Adams, Benedict Mason and Harrison Birtwistle, as well as transcriptions of Conlon Nancarrow piano rolls and electronica by Venetian Snares (Aaron Funk) and Mochipet (David Wang). Feb. 28. Zankel Hall.'PETER GRIMES' Benjamin Britten was drawn to the darker side of human psychology in his stage works, and in the case of "Peter Grimes," it's hard to know who is creepier: Grimes, around whom young boys seem prone to accidental death, or the townspeople, who become a lynch mob well before the evidence is weighed. In this new Met production by John Doyle, Anthony Dean Griffey sings the title role, and Patricia Racette is Ellen Orford. Donald Runnicles conducts. Opens Feb. 28. Metropolitan Opera House.♦ TODD REYNOLDS/TALUJON PERCUSSION The violinist and composer Todd Reynolds teams up with the Talujon Percussion Quartet for what is promised as a fresh look at the music of Meredith Monk, Giacinto Scelsi, Philip Glass and Steve Reich. Feb. 28. Symphony Space.VIENNA PHILHARMONIC The famous Viennese men's club visits with its matched instruments and the antique repertory it plays with such polish. Valery Gergiev conducts programs that lean more heavily on the Russian repertory (including Tchaikovsky's Fifth and Sixth Symphonies) than those this orchestra usually plays in New York. French music — Berlioz and Debussy — is represented as well, but Viennese music of any school is entirely absent. Maybe the orchestra is hoping that the facsimile of repertory versatility will mask its inflexibility in personnel matters. (How many full-time women this year?) Feb. 29-March 2. Carnegie Hall.MARCHJULIAN BREAM TRIBUTE Mr. Bream doesn't celebrate his 75th birthday until July, but several of the best American classical guitarists of the generation who grew up listening to Mr. Bream's recordings and absorbing his intellectually vital, post-Segovian style are banding together to salute him in anticipation of that milestone. The players include Frederic Hand, William Kanengiser, David Leisner, David Tanenbaum, Scott Tennant and Benjamin Verdery. March 1. 92nd Street Y.'KING ARTHUR' Technically, "King Arthur" is a semi-opera, an example of the hybrid form of theater and opera that pleased the opera-disdaining Londoners of Purcell's time. This Arthur is not the grail-seeking king of the Roundtable you may know from Mallory. The Arthur of John Dryden's libretto loves the blind Emmeline, not Guinevere, and his mission is to defeat the Saxon king Oswald. On both sides, wizards and spirits abound, and Purcell supplies magnificently picturesque music — most notably, the chromatic aria of the Cold Genius and the chattering chorus of the Cold People — as well as paeans to England like "Fairest Isle." Mark Morris directs and choreographs this new City Opera production, with costumes by Isaac Mizrahi, and Jane Glover conducts. Opens March 5. New York State Theater.ALAN GILBERT This young conductor lead the New York Philharmonic for the first time since he was recently named as its next music director. March 5-8, 13-15. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.♦ TALLIS SCHOLARS Peter Phillips and his English vocal ensemble perform in New York so often that you would almost mistake them for locals. In the most inviting of its programs this season, the group applies its seamlessly produced sound to Spanish sacred works, with the Victoria Requiem as the main draw. March 6. Riverside Church, Riverside Drive at 122nd Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799. millertheater.com.JANINE JANSEN Having quickly established that the sultry photos on her CD covers disguise a serious, technically solid musician, the Dutch violinist Janine Jansen is burning her way through the repertory. In this chamber program she plays Bach's D minor Partita, with its monumental Chaconne, and is joined by Maxim Rysanov, violist, and Torleif Thedéen, cellist, in Bach two- and three-part Inventions and Schnittke's String Trio. March 8. Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949. metmuseum.org.'TRISTAN UND ISOLDE' Deborah Voigt sings her first Metropolitan Opera Isolde in this revival of Wagner's meditation on all-consuming love. With Ben Heppner as Tristan, the company offers today's great Wagnerian power couple. Opens March 10. Metropolitan Opera House.ETHEL String quartets that use amplification persuasively are few and far between, but Ethel has made an art of it, and is as conversant with the joys of fuzz-boxes, phase-shifters and other sound-processing devices as any self-respecting electric guitarist. The group celebrates its 10th anniversary with a program that explores its quirky and in some cases home-brewed repertory. March 20. Symphony Space.POCKET CONCERTOS In the final installment of the Miller Theater's program of newly commissioned concertos, Jennifer Koh plays Laura Elise Schwendinger's Violin Concerto and Christopher Taylor is the soloist in "The Starry Night," a piano concerto by Ichizo Okashiro. Closing the series, the idiosyncratic John Zorn has written a concerto for singer and amplified ensemble and has undoubtedly come up with the title of the year: "27 Acts of Unspeakable Depravity in the Abominable Life and Times of Gilles de Rais." March 27. Miller Theater.MARGARET LENG-TAN, SYLVIE COURVOISIER Morton Feldman proved that the smallest sounds can express big ideas. Margaret Leng-Tan has applied that theory to instruments, by way of the toy piano. She also plays full-size instruments, though usually by reaching in to strike the strings directly. She will do both in her half of a program, split with the jazz pianist Sylvie Courvoisier. The program includes music by John Cage, Henry Cowell and George Crumb, and a new work by Stephen Montague for piano and live electronics. March 27. Merkin Concert Hall.APRIL★ PETER SERKIN A new work by Charles Wuorinen is the centerpiece of a recital by the quietly virtuosic Peter Serkin. But if Mr. Serkin's adventures in new music mean less to you than his probing way with the classics, his account of Brahms's "Handel Variations" will probably be the stronger draw. April 5. 92nd Street Y.ORCHESTRA OF ST. LUKE'S It would be impossible to hear Fauré's Requiem too often, but the fact is, it seldom turns up on concert programs. Bobby McFerrin, the virtuoso vocalist turned conductor, leads the work, with Dominique Labelle and Nathan Gunn as soloists, in a concert by the busy Orchestra of St. Luke's, with the Morgan State University Choir. The rest of the program is equally appealing: Prokofiev's "Classical" Symphony, Ravel's "Tombeau de Couperin" and, of course, vocal improvisations by Mr. McFerrin. In a second concert Mr. McFerrin and the orchestra are joined by Yo-Yo Ma. April 6, 10. Carnegie Hall.BEAUX-ARTS TRIO It's sad, but probably time. With this hefty program — both Schubert trios and a work by Gyorgy Kurtag — the Beaux-Arts Trio bids farewell to its New York audience. In its heyday, when its lineup was Isidore Cohen, the violinist; Bernard Greenhouse, the cellist; and Menahem Pressler, the pianist, this was one of the world's great chamber groups. Now only Mr. Pressler remains, and although he and a parade of young colleagues (currently, Daniel Hope and Anthony Meneses) have kept the performance level high, the multigenerational Beaux-Arts doesn't quite have the spirit of the original. April 6. Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949. metmuseum.org.'SATYAGRAHA' Philip Glass's second opera — his first with an orchestral score — has a fascinating dual focus. Its characters and action describe Gandhi's early years as a lawyer in South Africa, when he developed his philosophy of nonviolence as a means for social change. But the libretto, sung in Sanskrit, is drawn entirely from the Bhagavad-Gita, an ancient Hindu sacred text. It is a supremely moving work on both levels, and this second New York staging is woefully overdue. (The first was at the Brooklyn Academy in 1981.) Phelim McDermott directs this production, first seen at the English National Opera, and the tenor Richard Croft sings Gandhi. Opens April 11. Metropolitan Opera House.♦ EUROPA GALANTE Fabio Biondi's Europa Galante is one of several European period-instrument groups with a significantly elevated — one could even say hyper — energy level. Its program is a bit motley: among the composers represented are Galuppi, Muffat, Biber, Telemann, Vivaldi, Purcell and Leclair. But expect the zestiness of the playing to carry the day. April 12. Miller Theater.EIGHTH BLACKBIRD Chamber groups that play from memory are rare; those that do so with complicated new music are rarer still. Eighth Blackbird does it not so much to show off but because its young players are fond of adding choreography to their performances. They offer two premieres, Steve Reich's Double Sextet and a collaborative work by the Bang on a Can compositional brain trust, Julia Wolfe, David Lang and Michael Gordon. April 17. Zankel Hall.'LES TROYENS' Berlioz's epic setting of this tragic tale from the Aeneid should make a robust workout for James Levine, the Boston Symphony and a cast that includes Anne Sofie von Otter as Dido, Marcello Giordani as Aeneas, Yvonne Naef as Cassandra and Dwayne Croft as Chorebus. April 22-26 (Part 1); April 30-May 2 (Part 2), May 4 (complete). Symphony Hall, Boston.'OUR TOWN' Few contemporary composers handle voices better than Ned Rorem, but his operas remain less well traveled than his songs. Perhaps "Our Town" — based on the Thornton Wilder story (you may have seen the film, with Copland's score) — will change that. When the work had its premiere at the Indiana University Opera Theater in 2006, Anne Midgette wrote that Mr. Rorem and his librettist, J. D. McClatchy, "seem to have aspired to write an opera people would like, and they may have succeeded." But so far it seems destined for conservatory performances. Edward Berkeley directs, and Anne Manson conducts the students of the Juilliard Opera Center. April 23, 25, 27. Juilliard School.♦ ESCHENBACH'S MAHLER As Christoph Eschenbach winds up his troubled tenure with the Philadelphia Orchestra, he is continuing his way through the Mahler cycle he has been offering over the last few years. His account of the Second Symphony last season was oddly inert, but with the mammoth Eighth, for which the stage and usually parts of the balconies are packed with musicians, vocal soloists and choristers, you can surf on the sheer power and heft of the sound, if nothing else. Still, here's hoping for something more. May 6. Carnegie Hall.MAYFREDERIC RZEWSKI A keyboard firebrand whose works often have political subtexts and bristle with anger, Mr. Rzewski joins the new-music ensemble Opus 21 to discuss and perform his works in an installment of Carnegie Hall's Making Music series. This May Day program includes his new "Song and Dance," as well as "Cadenza" and a two-piano version of the thundering "Winnsboro Cotton Mill Blues." May 1. Zankel Hall.♦ BEETHOVEN, PART 5 Lincoln Center, continuing its practice of presenting overviews of composers and performers on film, devotes this year's series to the Beethoven symphonies. The seven installments of "Beethoven: The Art of the Symphony" include programs devoted to the "Eroica" and Ninth Symphonies, compilations of performances by the great conductors of the past century, and more focused looks at the Beethoven interpretations of Otto Klemperer, Georg Solti, Carlos Kleiber and Herbert von Karajan. May 2-3, 10-11. Walter Reade Theater.♦ EARLY MUSIC NEW YORK Frederick Renz leads his expandable ensemble in its chamber orchestra guise in music by Lully and Rameau, the two most influential French composers of the 17th and 18th centuries. O.K., Lully was really Italian, but he defined the French style, and the French claim him as their own, so why quibble? May 3. St. James Church, Madison Avenue at 71st Street, (212) 280-0330. earlymusicny.org.AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA Part competition, part glimpse into the near future of composition, the Underwood New Music Readings that traditionally cap the American Composers Orchestra season are a great barometer of new orchestral composition. At the end, one composer walks away with a $15,000 commission. Listeners over the years have had first hearings of music by Melinda Wagner, Derek Bermel, P. Q. Phan, Randall Woolf, Jennifer Higdon and Daniel Bernard Roumain. May 6-7. Skirball Center for Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 977-8495. americancomposers.org.♦ CLARION CONCERTS This period-instrument orchestra has long specialized in rarities and here offers glimpses of unknown (if, admittedly, not quite major) Mendelssohn, including a reworked version of the String Symphony No. 3 and arias from his unfinished operas. Also on the bill: a Donizetti setting of "Ave Maria" and Schubert's "Salve Regina" and Mass in C. May 7. Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, Park Avenue at 84th Street,  (212) 580-5700. clarionsociety.org.PHILLIP BIMSTEIN AND NICO MUHLY Young composers care less than their elders about the distinctions that define high and low art, classical music and pop, and even street noise and organized sound. Phillip Bimstein uses street sounds as the raw material of his concert music, and Nico Muhly moves easily between the pop and classical worlds. They present recent works and are interviewed by John Schaefer in this "New Sounds Live" program. May 8. Merkin Concert Hall.MITSUKO UCHIDA Originally a sublime Mozartean, then a supreme Schubert interpreter with unimpeachable bona fides as a Schoenberg and Beethoven interpreter, Mitsuko Uchida these days is a pianist you're ready to trust with anything she's willing to play. She opens this recital with a specialty, Schubert's C minor Sonata (D. 958), then moves toward Schumann's "Symphonic Études" by way of Bach and Gyorgy Kurtag. May 9. Carnegie Hall.'WALL-TO-WALL BACH' For the last 30 years, Symphony Space has presented free, daylong "wall to wall" concerts devoted to a single composer, compositional style or musical era. To celebrate the start of the event's fourth decade, the recently refurbished hall returns to the subject of its very first production. The day of Bach concertos, sonatas, keyboard works and arias ends with a performance of the B minor Mass. May 17. Symphony Space.♦ KORNGOLD VIOLIN CONCERTO You've probably heard the quip "more corn than gold," but if you're disposed to lush Romanticism and singing violin lines, this work deserves, at the very least, a place on your guilty pleasures list. Glenn Dicterow, the New York Philharmonic's concertmaster, plays it, with David Robertson conducting. Mr. Robertson also leads the Philharmonic in Schubert's "Unfinished" Symphony and Sibelius's First during the first of his two weeks with the orchestra. May 22-24. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.JUNEAMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA In his final concert of the season, Leon Botstein conducts music in which composers imagine the cosmos. Forget Holst's "Planets": that's too commonplace for this band. Instead, Mr. Botstein and company offer Gyorgy Ligeti's "Atmosphères" (not exactly unknown since its use in Stanley Kubrick's "2001") and "Apparitions"; Toru Takemitsu's percussion-based "Cassiopeia"; Andrzej Panufnik's Symphony No. 5 ("Symphony of the Spheres"); and Rued Langgaard's narcotically lush "Music of the Spheres." June 1. Avery Fisher Hall.♦ NEW YORK GILBERT AND SULLIVAN PLAYERS, PART 2 For the second half of its bifurcated season, this feisty specialist troupe tackles the best works in the Savoyard canon: "H.M.S. Pinafore" (June 6, 8, 10-11); "The Pirates of Penzance" (June 7, 13), "The Mikado" (June 7, 14) and "The Gondoliers" (June 12, 14-15). City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212. nygasp.org.IN the birthplace of modern salsa, and in a city that has more than two million Latinos, you'd think that planning a weekend that centers on Latin music would be simple: a night at the Copacabana, scope out the Latin music Web sites for special events, then stop by a salsa club.But it ain't that fácil. The Copa is closed (and seeking a new location), the Web sites are mostly outdated, and real salsa in the clubs has been being diluted for decades. First, there was lighter pop salsa, then came merengue and bachata, and finally the takeover by urban reggaetón, hip-hop, R & B.Scheduling your weekend will depend on how urbanized a sound you can stand, how young a crowd you can tolerate, and whether you're in the dancing or sit-and-bob-your-head crowd.First recommendation: Start early, on Thursday night in Spanish Harlem. Sure, the Puerto Rican population there has faded as Mexicans (and the gentry) arrived — as a local priest put it, "We bury Puerto Ricans and baptize Mexicans" — but it's still the spiritual heart of New York's Puerto Rican music scene.Thursday night features two great events. First, a spirited, old-school Latin jazz jam session takes over La Fonda Boricua sometime after 8 p.m. Most nights, the place is just an excellent traditional Puerto Rican restaurant, serving comfort food like pernil (roast pork shoulder) and mofongo (green plantains fried and mashed with pork, chicken or shrimp). But one night a week, the food arrives with a blast of salsa that makes the ragtag band seem like they've been playing together for years. With this informal, beer-drinking crowd, age is irrelevant.Not far away, Camaradas el Barrio provides a home for  modern, hip Puerto Ricans (and other Latinos) with a nod to the past. The bar's popular Thursday night regulars, Yerbabuena (not to be confused with another New York group, Yerba Buena), play what they call Puerto Rican "roots music," heavy on the percussion. (Camaradas also has live music on Saturdays.) Though the Copa's physical space has closed, it still holds Friday night parties with live salsa at Columbus 72. And another club with a longstanding tradition in Latin music is still going strong: S.O.B.'s, which on Fridays is host to "Salsa Groove," featuring different salsa bands —  often with a modernized twist —  and a mixed-age crowd. (You can stand, sit or dance, all with a great view of the band.) That's on the early side (with shows at 8 p.m. and 10 p.m.), but if you don't stick around for the 11 p.m. Haitian dance party, you can head east to the Parkside Lounge's venerable Friday night live salsa tradition, from 10:30 p.m. to 3 a.m.Saturdays at S.O.B.'s, it's Brazilian night with a similar, diverse audience; to hang with a younger, heavily Latino crowd, go to LQ, where you'll find a mix of hip-hop, R & B and reggaetón in the main room, signaling what the young'uns want these days. But there is also a large back room where salsa, merengue and bachata rule.Finally, for those still standing on Sunday night, you might consider a very chill evening at Birdland, with the Chico O'Farrill Orchestra — named for the late leader but now led by his son Arturo (the sweat-drenched guy at the piano), doing Latin jazz. It's an older, sit-at-the-table-and-clap crowd, if that's your thing.Venturing farther afield can mean great rewards. Check out what is coming up at Barbès, which has the occasional strong Latin act. Next Saturday, for example, the club has scheduled Las Rubias del Norte, a Brooklyn band that plays its own twist on traditional genres like cha-cha, cumbia and bolero. As the name — Blondes From the North — implies, they're gringo, but don't hold it against them.If you want to try Queens, there's D'Antigua, a larger lounge in Jackson Heights with eclectic taste but a penchant for Latin alternative music. For those who want to venture into the territory of the city's largest immigrant group, northern Manhattan has Dominican clubs that bridge the traditional and the modern, like Arka Lounge.But the best thing you can do is find out what's going on that very weekend. The biggest names in Latin music come through occasionally, playing Carnegie Hall, Radio City and Madison Square Garden. But look out especially for regular parties held by SociedadLatinany.com, MarchaLatina.org and LaFarraNY.com (this site's in Spanish only).And New York finally has a Web site, NYRemezcla.com, that focuses on the Latin scene with a week's worth of listings on the home page, is shockingly up-to-date and, in a history-defying minor miracle, doesn't appear to be in danger of collapsing any time soon. VISITOR INFORMATION Columbus 72, 246A Columbus Avenue between 71st and 72nd; (212) 239-2672; www.columbus72.com.S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street (at West Houston); (212) 243-4940; www.sobs.com.LQ ( Latin Quarter), 511 Lexington Avenue (between 47th and 48th); (212) 593-7575; www.lqny.com.La Fonda Boricua, 169 East 106th Street; (212) 410-7292; www.fondaboricua.com.Camaradas el Barrio, 2241 First Avenue (at 115th); (212) 348-2703; www.camaradaselbarrio.com.Parkside Lounge, 317 East Houston Street (at Attorney); (212) 673-6270; www.parksidelounge.com.Birdland, 315 West 44th Street; (212) 581-3080; www.birdlandjazz.com.Barbès, 376 Ninth Street (at Sixth Avenue), Park Slope, Brooklyn; (718) 965-9177; www.barbesbrooklyn.com.D'Antigua, 84-16 Northern Boulevard, Jackson Heights, Queens; (718) 779-0128.Terraza, 40-19 Gleane Street, Jackson Heights, Queens; (718) 803-9602; www.terrazacafe.com.Arka Lounge, 4488 Broadway (at 192nd Street); (212) 567-9425; www.arkalounge.com.9 P.M. (CBS) FASHION ROCKS They go together like a horse and carriage — or, more to the point, like skintight leather and Mick Jagger. This fourth annual concert pays tribute to the bond between fashion and music with appearances by Aerosmith, Avril Lavigne, Carrie Underwood, Fall Out Boy, Jennifer Hudson, Jennifer Lopez, Martina McBride and Adam Levine of Maroon 5, above. Mary J. Blige and Usher, Fergie and Ludacris, and Alicia Keys and Santana will perform duets. The glam squad at Radio City Music Hall includes Jessica Alba, Max Azria, Mischa Barton, Tyra Banks, Sean Combs, Francisco Costa, 50 Cent, Teri Hatcher, Tommy Hilfiger, Michael Kors, Irina Lazareanu, Denis Leary, Kimora Lee Simmons, Sean Lennon, Emily Procter and LeAnn Rimes. Jeremy Piven is host.8 P.M. (CMT) TRICK MY TRUCK  The Chrome Shop Mafia ends its third season with an overhaul of Dustin Stout's old International cab-over truck. Mr. Stout, just shy of 21, has been dreaming of a life on the road since he took his first ride at age 3.8 P.M. (C-Span) PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARIES: HISTORY UNCOVERED  C-Span continues its overview of modern presidencies by drawing on rare and unseen film culled from 12 presidential libraries in cooperation with the National Archives. Tonight, a look at the life of Herbert  Hoover through home movies showing him fishing at his Virginia camp, Rapidan; campaign films; and a memorable interview that demonstrates his difficulties in communicating with the public.8 P.M. (National Geographic) DOG WHISPERER Tssst! Cesar Millan, left, begins a new season of behavioral therapy for the canine set.8 P.M. (2) NOW This PBS investigative program examines military sexual trauma, the sexual assault and rape of female soldiers in the United States military by fellow servicemen.9 P.M. (Food Network) PAULA'S PARTY  Paula Deen conjures up tasty ways to tie the knot, with guests including Katie Lee Joel, who discusses her wedding to Billy Joel, and the planner David Tutera.9 P.M. (IFC) TRAPPED IN THE CLOSET All 22 chapters of R. Kelly's convoluted musical discourse on violence and infidelity will be shown together as a feature film. At 10:30, "Trapped Inside the Realm of R. Kelly" features this R&B star in an interview from his Chicago recording studio, where he'll presumably expose a bit of the method behind the madness.9 P.M. (USA) MONK The title character (Tony Shalhoub) helps a man adjust to civilian life after he is released from prison thanks to DNA. Too bad Monk helped send him there in the first place.11 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER Cornel West and Rep. Rahm Emanuel of Illinois are the guests.11 P.M. (IFC) THE HENRY ROLLINS SHOW Let out a scream. In this season-finale special, Steven Tyler and Mr. Rollins discuss the history of the music business, the dangers of rock 'n' roll, and the future of Aerosmith in an uncut interview. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 
